start time: 00:20:00.000
end time: 3101:43:20.000
confidence: 0.96
A: The study session of the Board of education for September 26, 2023 is called to order. This session is being streamed live on PPS TV Services website and on Channel 28 and will be replayed throughout the next two weeks. Please check the district website for replay times. All right, so today we're going to have three agenda items. One will be the Successful school Survey, the OSAS data review and the. I just said it. See, I guess I failed already. No, the board. Oh Lord, the board Budget review draft. Sorry about that Budget calendar. All right, so we're going to start with the Successful school survey. So I'm going to turn it over to Superintendent. Thank you, Chair Hollins. Good evening directors here and online. At least one of you will recall that in 2018-19, Portland Public Schools began implementing the Successful school survey hosted by Panorama Education. We felt it was important to begin gathering direct student, family and staff perceptions of climate in our schools, in our classrooms. We think it's an important source of information. It's critical because research shows that student perceptions of their school experience are predictive of attendance, discipline and academic outcomes for students. This evening we have our chief of assessment, research, assessment and accountability, Dr. Renard Adams. And he'll introduce a couple more guests that are going to help give a summary presentation of our successful school survey results. Thank you, Superintendent. Good evening board directors, both here and virtual online. I'm joined tonight by Christina Gillen. She is our partner at Panorama and she will be sharing the results. This is again our climate survey from last school year. So this covers the 2022, 2023 school year. This presentation was initially scheduled to occur in late June, but there was some moving of the board agendas and so we're just getting it back around to it now. So we're really looking forward to unpacking these results with you tonight. And without any further ado, I'm going to turn it over to Christina. Thank you, Dr. Adams. Hi everyone. My name is Christina Gillen and I'm a professional professional learning director at Panorama Education. I actually just moved to Portland from the Bay Area last year. Previously I spent 10 years living in Oakland, California working as a district level PBIS and MTSS coach at Oakland Unified School District. I'm a big systems thinker and really thankful to be a part of the team at Panorama where our mission is to radically improve education for every student. Our team includes former educators like myself, developers, designers and researchers. And we serve 15 million students in the country. Next slide please. Just a top level overview of what we'll review today. First, we'll begin with some context and background about the Successful School survey and then we'll dive into some data insights, have a brief discussion, and have some time at the end for reflections and questions. As a reminder here, PPS completes the Successful School survey annually. And last year our survey window was from January to February. The topics we cover within your survey include school climate, belonging, relationships, engagement, cultural awareness, and more. And we survey grades 3 to 12 for our students, all of our school FTE staff, and our K12 families. Thank you. Highlighting here the total number of responses across each community group that completed the survey this past year, including 21,130 responses from students. I'll pause here so you can take a look at those numbers a little bit more closely. Then we can go to the next slide and here we'll see a breakdown of participation across surveys by race and ethnicity. Pause here to give folks a chance to look at those details. And generally, we encourage leaders to review these to see how this data aligns with their overall demographics and enrollment numbers to ensure they're getting an accurate picture of their student, staff and community members. Feedback and you'll see that this is split up into the groups for each of your surveys, so including instructional staff, your families, grades three, five, and grades six to 12. Thanks. Okay, so now that we've built a little bit of context, let's dive into your survey data. To access your survey data, we'll go to secure.panoramad.com thank you. You'll select Portland Public Schools to view district level data, which is that blue building there, which takes us to our topic level pages. Each topic includes a percent favorable score and that tells us the percentage of survey respondents who responded favorably to a topic or question. And go one more. And the graphs on each topic page one more show us how each score aligns with national benchmarks and the comparisons. Page one more shows us how topic scores vary across demographic groups from students. Then the schools page, next one will show us data across all schools in PPS and one more specific school. Specific scores for individual questions are listed on each topic page. Next slide. All right, we're going to start with elementary student survey topic results. Topics we've identified to focus on are school safety, sense of belonging, school climate, self efficacy about math, and self efficacy about ela. As you see in the topic scores here, you'll notice those percent favorable scores in blue. Then you'll be able to see percentile rankings which show us how our numbers match up with national benchmarks. And then the Final numbers on the right side show us the change since the previous survey iteration. You can go to the next slide. Wanted to highlight some bright spots here because I am a PBIS coach at heart and I always like to think about the things that I notice that are great first. So in our data for third to fifth grade students for the topic of school safety we see that our responses overall were 63% favorable, but student perception of school safety safety specifically for African American students increased by 4%. For sense of belonging, we also noticed a 4% increase for third grade students in particular. Next slide. We noticed some opportunities for growth within school safety specifically focused on this question how often are people disrespectful to others at your school? This question had 37% favorable responses, but you might notice that this sometimes response has the highest number and that tells us that the shifting of responses towards favorable might be an easier lift to focus on first and we'll continue to see that as a trend through a lot of the questions that we'll see today. Similarly, one sense of belonging question asks how much respect do students at your school should you the some respect response here represents a significant chunk of your students and could potentially be addressed with things like school wide interventions related to setting community norms around respect. This then ties in with a school climate question at your school, how does behavior how does the behavior of other students hurt or help your learning? The high number of middle responses here shows us how smaller shifts could have significant significant impact. Next slide. Now let's take a look at secondary student data for here we'll focus on school safety, self efficacy about ELA and math, school climate and sense of belonging. One more across all questions for sense of belonging we noticed a 1% increase in favorable responses with a total of 34% favorable. And since our end size here is 13,500 students, that represents a shift in favorability of 135 students. School safety saw a 3% increase in responses specifically from transgender students and all of 6th grade saw an average of 6% increases across all topics. That 6th grade data point was something that I really spent a lot of time talking through with teams during my spring survey results reviews and trying to think intentionally about how to utilize some of the supports that were going towards the 6th grade students and apply those to other student demographic groups and we had a really rich discussion back then and I'm looking forward to continuing those discussions. Next slide. Opportunities for growth here include sense of belonging specifically how connected do you feel to adults at your school which had a 23% favorable response and paying attention here to that 12% of responses feeling not at all connected and thinking about what levers we might have in place across schools to support students building relationships with staff for school safety. We we have the same target question as the third to fifth grade how often are people disrespectful to others at your school? Which saw a 4% dip in favorability since the previous year's survey for school climate. Also the same question as elementary at your school, how much does the behavior of other students help or hurt your learning? These three questions could be all interconnected and in my mind could be addressed through UN Universal Tier 1 supports and discussions around making adjustments to ensure that students have conversations about things like community norms, have conversations about how to define respect, what it means in different contexts. All of those types of things may be supportive in moving some of these levers. Next slide Next we'll look at our family survey results. Topics of focus here include barriers to engagement, school safety, school climate, and school fit. Overall, family perception about barriers to engagement increased by 2%, highlighting here that the questions related to child care needs and transportation related challenges both had high favorable scores. Families also indicated their perception of student vulnerability belonging increased by 1%, including growth in how much their sense of belonging their child feels at school and also how well activities at school match their child's interest. Next slide. Opportunities here within the family data include school safety and how often families worry about violence in their school. This question saw a 15% decrease in favorable responses since the previous year's survey. Focusing on motivating classroom lessons could be an opportunity for growth in school climate and continued attention to activities matching students interest for school fit. Next slide for instructional staff results, we'll look overall at district alignment, district leadership, district leadership, relationships, professional learning and feedback and coaching. I think that's for the building leaders. Oh yeah, my apologies. Well, we can go to the next slide and that may be slightly different. Apologies about that. I think I switched a slide around. So the biggest highlights Here are a 3% increase in staff positive percentage perceptions about teacher burnout and retention as well as an 11% increase in perceptions about staff to staff relationships. We can go to the next slide. And similarly here to the family data that we looked at earlier. We saw a 12% decrease in favorable responses from staff worried about violence in their school. We also noticed a 7% dip in responses to a question about school climate if teachers are trusted to teach in the way that they think is best. Finally, although we saw growth in staff relationships Overall, instructional staff noted there were still challenges in making connections to families, so ideas and supports there would be helpful for moving the lever here. Next slide. I think this one should be right then. Okay, so lastly we'll look at our school leader results. Topics to highlight here are those same topics as before. Overall district engagement, district leadership, relationships, professional learning and feedback and coaching. Last one, we have lots of bright spots here, but the couple that I really wanted to shout out specifically was that leader clarity about disruption, district goals and priorities increased by 32% and related perception of support for these goals improved by 17%. We also noticed the gains in likelihood to follow through with commitments and overall district engagement. Go to Next one Leaders also indicated that the helpfulness of colleagues ideas for improving work increased by 9%, appreciation for new strategies for improving student achievement by 3 and relevance of professional learning to student achievement grew by 1. And you'll see the favorable responses on the right there as well. Next slide. Final highlights for some growth opportunities here, so including the desire for school leaders to have more input in decision making at the district level and stating the need for continued trust building between school leaders and district leadership. Leaders also indicated their desire for valuable professional learning opportunities and increased opportunities to learn from evaluation processes at the school site level. Next slide. If you'd like to access more of the survey reporting data yourself, you can log on to secure.panoramaed.com and click Sign in with Google to explore more. All right, so let's wrap up this time with some reflection and questions. And one more slide I think has the questions on it. Are there any clarifying questions from this data that we can answer for you and how can we potentially connect this data to existing district priorities and priorities practices? All right, well, thank you for the presentation. I asked the thanks for the presentation and ask the board if they have any questions. I have a quick question about the response rate by race. Do we know if our response rate mirrors closely the number of students proportionate to the number of students? Well, one of that's a great question, Director DePass. We can look into that and continue a follow up. One of the things we want to be mindful of as we do these and discuss these data is that our students self identify on the survey, which is different than when they enroll in school. And so you'll notice that there are some racial and ethnic categories that aren't captured in the federally required one. So there might be a little bit of a disconnect there, but we're happy, we're happy to look into that for You. Yeah. Just curious if it's proportionate or not. And just also want to make a comment that I noted the increase in the sense of safety for our trans or LGBTQ and trans students, which is a really positive improvement. Also appreciate the very last slide that showed where we could make improvements in communication between district staff and building leadership, for instance. So thank you, Ms. Gillen. Thank you. Appreciate that. I would like to also add that schools use these data as a part of their continuous improvement plan and activities. And central office leaders have been very transparent with the data coming from our school leaders. As soon as I saw it, I shared it with the superintendent, we had conversations, we took it to the cabinet level. Dr. Franco and I started brainstorming how we could share the data with our building leaders. We shared it with them, wanted to be really transparent about where they're seeing the challenges with district leadership and where we see opportunities for growth. And we continued those conversations beginning last May into the school year and are continuing to work on doing things like developing trust, making sure we're clear about what our priorities are, et cetera. Yeah, exactly. It also looks like the strategic plan was socialized really well in the data that you shared. So thank you. Do the individual schools and teachers know what the. What came out of their own classrooms? Yes, they do. They have access to their own data and principals review. We set aside one of those Tuesdays for professional learning where they go over the results of their successful schools data and they talk about it quite often. Great. Thank you for the question. What was the. What is our. And maybe I missed it because as soon as I saw it, I just started looking at it again. The methodology that we used around getting the. Getting this out to everyone to make sure that everyone had access to fill it out, time to fill it out, and felt comfortable filling it out. Well, with staff, we provide time during the workday for them to complete it. We have students complete it during the workday, and we get the message out to families, however we can. QR codes, flyers, back to school activities, depending or not back to school because it was in January and February, Renard. So it wasn't back to school, but at engagements where parents are in the building. Sometimes schools set up opportunities and computers for parents to then take the survey while they're there with them. And so we. We do try. And I heard actually from a couple schools and a couple senior directors very recently about schools that are attempting to be more intentional about their outreach with their families. You know, we. We can do a lot at the district Level. But then we know it's our principals and our assistant and vice principals and our teachers who know their communities best and know how to best reach their families. And so similar to Michelle's question, and I know we can look into it, but I'm just kind of curious as to if we look at our percentage of overall African American students within school and staff and all the different, all those different variances, and I understand that they self select, but can we look and see what the delta is from? This is what we have. This is the number that filled them out. And then this is the difference so that we can get an idea of how many voices we are potentially, potentially missing. Understanding also, all things being equal, that they may, some may have filled out and they just may be in an other category. But I'm just curious. We are, we are able to do that, and schools are able to do that sometimes if there's only a few. Like I was one. I was the only black male staff member when I was a middle school teacher at my school in the Panorama survey. That would be under a category called confidentially protected because the number's so low that we don't want to expose someone's identity. So. But there is an extent to which we can look at those data and do. You're welcome. Thank you for the question. So, Chair Holmes, can you jump in? Yes. Great. Actually, Dr. Adams, you kind of answered the question I was going to ask. 1. I just want to start off by saying this, this survey is so important. I'm so glad we do it. And I think it's really, it just, it demonstrates year to year, you know, how we're doing in terms of our overall school culture and district culture. And the question I was going to ask was, you know, how are we getting this out, you know, into schools? And you answered that. And I guess what I would say, what always strikes me when we go over these results is there are some things that we as a board can do, you know, around, you know, improving culture. But most of the work that's going to happen here is at the building level. Level. Right. It's the building leader, it's the teachers, it's in the classrooms, and it's also with parents and the community. And so in addition to everything you mentioned about how we get this into the buildings, which I think is really important, I would also encourage us to really think about how do we get this to our, you know, active parent and community groups. Right. So whether that's PTAs or, you know, build Site, site, site councils so that they can really see what's happening as well, because, again, they, you know, families play a role in the overall school climate and school culture. And I think all those pieces coming together to really, at the building level, sort of saying, you know, where are bright spots and where are areas for improvement can just go a long way towards improving culture overall in the district. So thanks for doing the survey, and again, I look forward to the results every year. So I appreciate this presentation. Appreciate that. Director Scott, I would be remiss if I didn't recognize Dr. Liz Gilkey. Please wave behind me, who's in the audience. She's on my team. She leads this survey work across the district, and she has worked with director Will Howell in the communications office, and they have a whole communications blitz that we do and enhance every year. We try to make it better so that we reach more families. All right, Student Director Silverstein. Hi. Oh, my goodness. I have a lot to get to. So, first of all, on the point when you all mentioned building relationships with staff for students and how that is a really important area we need to improve on, definitely would agree. Within the district student council's first meeting, that was identified by multiple people as an area they wanted to focus on. And then so you also mentioned, like, the ways we're collecting them and how there is time provided, like, during, like, instructional hours to fill this out for students. And I was wondering if there was, like, any control or consideration for students who, like, just randomly fill it out so they can tell their teacher they did. I'll let you answer that, and then I can ask my other questions. Thank you, Student Director. What I would like to say to that. That's a great question. How do we control for people who aren't taking the survey seriously, is the way I interpreted your question. And I would say that's done at the individual teacher level. Right. We don't necessarily have a mechanism centrally. We could make the survey so that everybody gets an individual link, but then you need a password, and that creates more of a burden and a barrier. And so we try to ensure that the survey is open, and we hope and expect that people are giving us their honest and unabashed feedback. Okay, thank you. Yeah. I think that what just made me wonder that was, like, when we see a lot of, like, the answers right in the middle. Okay. And then my other questions. So I will just say that students that I've talked to have a lot of opinions about filling out this survey. And so I was wondering, like, is there ever Any feedback collected on like, the experience of taking the survey and how is it possible for us to engage with like student groups, community groups about that and how we can actually improve the survey to better fit the needs of our communities. So that's a beautiful and great idea. I would love. And we would love my team and I would love to partner with you to figure out how we could do that. Let's do it. Okay, perfect. I will reach out. Think the district student council could be really helpful with that. I agree. Thank you for offering. That would be really great. And that's especially something that lots of our other clients at Panorama will have student focus groups kind of based on their initial data to follow up with questions just like that. So we'd be happy to support with planning around that too. Great, thank you. Earlier you mentioned like, I forgot which category it was. Sense of belonging. Maybe, I can't remember, but you mentioned like tier one supports. Are you referring to MTSs? Generally? When I'm saying tier one, I'm referring to MTSs, but I think also within that, just talking about any support that supports all students. Okay. So I mean, I just, I would be curious about. I mean, you don't have to answer this now, but just like using this data, what has changed? Practices, like specifics. I think I like to work in specifics. So if you do have an area where you have students not feeling belonging or stuff like that and you're implementing, I guess I would like to know what you're implementing, but also at the same time, how do we know what we know? For example, are we implementing these things and is it actually. How do we know it's actually creating positive changes? Change. Does that make sense? Again, you don't have to answer this now, but this is something I would like to follow up on and consistently ask about, you know, using this data. How are we using this data? That's a great question. I do want to. Director Wong, I do want to follow up and say that this is really the work of the principalship. When you think about it, what we do at the district level is try to provide tools and set conditions. But it's really the principal, his, him, her or they who work to put together practices in their building with their teachers and their educators in order to make the needle move. I've heard from former Principal Lathan about some things she put in place last year and she saw some improvement with her black student group and their sense of belonging in her building. I know. I've had conversations with Dr. Brown. Oh, gosh I'm messing up Trinise's name but I. Yes, the principal of Markham Elementary School who his name's escaping me. Forgive me girl. Thank you Principal Brown Warrens. Thank you so much. My senior director friends and she's been talking about the things she's been putting in place to make her students of color feel like they have more of a belonging space and they feel more part of the community. And so these are the kind of individual leadership moves that we unpack when we talk to building leaders when they come in and have their school improvement showcases with Dr. Franco and other senior leaders. It's a great question. I'm going to start with just like the most basic question. When I go to the link at the end of the presentation it takes me to 20, 21 data. Interesting. It should be defaulting to the most recent data. It's not. So I don't know if somebody could reset because I can't go to any of the. Yeah, absolutely I can check it, look at the data just comparative because I think I was the only person on the board who was here when it first was rolled out and so I'm aware of that. So I'd like to be able to look at the actual data but I can't. But a question I have is just in the terms of usefulness. Thanks for the presentation. I would love to be able to click down be able to get into actually the data because I think one of the values of it is actually sort of the click down and the respondents of being able to see actually how differently a lot of our students experience our schools and to different questions. And one thing I would ask is so we had families fill it out, students fill it out. How are they able to access the data or is it just the data that which the district chooses to present to them. I know when I was on a like site councils have used it or principals use it in their school improvement planning. But I'm just curious. We ask everybody to take this, the survey and it seems like I know one thing that's useful is being a community member is what is my experience similar to others and if not not why not? So I'm curious about how from a larger community perspective we share this data. You know who feels safe. I think the numbers are really interesting. What our staff feel, what our students feel and then is it same across and what does that mean just for our decision making about the environments we set up as a district. So great question. Thank you for the question. I'll answer it in A couple of ways. One, you asked if the district sort of determined what was shared and we do not. We truncated this presentation because I know we wanted to have a lot of conversation about our board goals and the OSAS data. But we don't prescribe or prohibit building leaders from sharing as much of the data as they can and want to. And they have access to all of their school's data. They can download a PDF of a report if they would show if they so choose, they can open. I know principals who open the data live on their computer in a way that we're similarly sharing a PowerPoint with you tonight. And so there is that ability to do that at the district level. We're able to compare and look across schools. You're not able to do that at the individual school level, although you can see how you, I believe you can see how you line up nationally in terms of percentiles if the question is also taken by other schools, which is a relative barometer, but not a perfect one. Actually in the 2021 data, which is what I have access to, you can see the school by school comparators. You have that access. Yes. But you're saying nobody else has that. Building leaders don't necessarily see across the district in that way, but central office staff do and board members. Okay, so it's really, it's up to the principal. They could share everything if they wanted to, like a download a PDF and here it is. Or not. It's. Any particular guidance that we give? Was it a district? Well, the guidance for all of our data is really grounded in the school improvement plan. So what is it that you're seeing in the data that isn't what you want to be, your state of being and how do you go about making those improvements and how do you monitor it? And so it does come down to individual site leader choices about what they might focus on. And I know different site leaders take, take different approaches with their site councils and their instructional leadership team. So I, I couldn't speak for all 81 campuses, but we certainly work with chief BUNO staff in the Office of Student Support Services to make sure that everyone has access. We provide access to multiple school level. Access is provided to multiple school level staff, including our counselors and our building building administrators. And we ask them to share those data. And again, it can be overwhelming to look at everything at once. So I don't know how many people look at everything. They may pick a few things that are jumping off the page and catching their attention and share those great and then just my last two questions for the district leader district data, which I'm assuming is the principals. So you have. Yeah. You have families and students, you have school staff and then your principals. Principals and assistant and vice principals. So because I don't have access to that data, I'm curious what the district leadership found since that you're their community in the district leadership data. And how is that? Because there's no school improvement plan for the like central office or the district leadership. What. What things in last year's survey did you look at as like this is a place where we want to work on or we've got some sort of initiative? Sure, that's a great question. I would love it if Dr. Franco could come down because he's put together the plan and the intentional steps that we're taking to. You were waiting for that, right? I hope you were. Good evening, directors. So back to your specific question, Director Remembrance. I would say there's. And just like with what Dr. Adams said, like we are very transparent with the data. We are very specific. We spent a leadership session at the end of the year to actually review very specifically about what our building leaders specifically did say. And we have a number of things that we're incorporating this year. If I were to go back to your. If there was one thing that we're definitely looking to improve upon. Building leaders have just have a ton of things kind of thrown at them and so increasing clarity in regards to information and point people. And so we've made the adjustment and created a very streamlined principal handbook, for example, with very specific contact information and point people. I know that that was immense. That has led to immense frustration about, you know, who do I contact especially for new leaders. I think that was a big piece. I would also say too, like we are always working, you know, one of our, our mantras is trying to make a big district like PPS feel small. And so with that creating avenues and opportunities for principal voice, including our strategic plan committees which we are revamping and re upping this year based on our strategic plan initiatives. We also have a specific PAPSA group that the superintendent I meet with specifically. We also, and this is going to be new this year, Principal Advisory committee. It lends opportunities for principal voice and then building, continuing to build that trust piece which we know foundationally is very, very important. Great. I guess my last thing would be who I'd like to reserve the follow up. I ask questions when I actually get this year's data. No, I just send them in. But like I had questions based on the data, but then I noticed it's like, wait, this is like 2021. I'm not going to ask those questions unless you want to answer them. Who would give me that? I want to leave knowing who's going to give me access to. If you could send the questions to me, I'll make sure I round the troops to answer those. That will be outside of my scope. And am I going to get. Who am I getting the password from or getting the updated data set? I will reach out to our project team. Great, thanks. Make sure that you get any other questions. Awesome. Thank you, Dr. Adams, Dr. Franco and Ms. Gillian. Thank you. All right. Oh, yeah. So each year on the board, as part of our budget process, adopts a budget calendar for the year. Superintendent Guerrero, will you be presenting. Who will be presenting this tonight? Well, we have a couple fine folks that are coming to the table. We're taking a little intermission from two data sets, really important data sets, to talk about our proposed draft budget calendar. Myung Lee, our interim deputy superintendent, being joined by Alexandra Martin from the team. Thank you, Superintendent. Good evening, directors, colleagues and members of the community. Great to be with you tonight. As Superintendent Guerrero mentioned, we think this will be the shortest of the three topics. We shall find out. It's up to you. But we did load up on board book the preliminary version of the budget calendar or budget development calendar for the fiscal year 2425 budget. And for most of you, we think that this document will look somewhat familiar in terms of the form and the types of events that are noted on the calendar. For directors Wong and Sullivan, this is similar to the process that has been adopted by the board in previous budget cycles. So for my part, I will just mention a couple of things that still need to be refined. Not necessarily this evening, but just to note that are on the spring portion of the calendar. So there is one row on the calendar that says that there is a community facing meeting that needs to be penciled in. A specific date needs to be penciled in. I think it's noted as something that is the week of April 29, I believe. And then, sorry, I was the other. Could you help me? Then there's one other event that is around that time and that also needs to be. I think both of those may need to be confirmed in one respect or another. One of the events has to be location has to be pinned down for one of those events. And one question we've been discussing is in previous cycles, my understanding is that that event has Sometimes taken place out in the community at a high school. So if that is the desire to as a setting for that event this time around, then we would just want to be specific with the public at an appropriate time to say when, exactly what time and the specific location of that event. So those are just a couple of loose ends. We have a little time to figure that out and to share out with the community. And then Alexandra, could you just mention the CBRC as well? We have a couple of engagements planned with the cbrc. You can see in our budget planning phase we have a work session planned with the CBRC on March 19 and then the CBRC would attend the proposed budget presentation. This is planned for April 23rd and this is where we have the location as TBD. And then the CBRC would present their proposed budget report on May 7. So just on a process note, as we believe you know already directors, this is a preliminary presentation of the proposed budget calendar and this will be back before you on October 10th for a vote and adoption. And with that we are here to respond to any questions that you may have. So I have have a couple recommendations and for anybody who's heard me in the past years around the budget calendar, they're going to be very similar because I feel like this is similar similar to other calendars have been presented. There's less than four weeks for the board between when the budget's presented and when we're being asked to approve it. It's a billion dollar budget and I would suggest that we need two more work sessions or need more time because actually we the way and I think in the past we have added these. But if we get it presented on the 23rd, third the hearing is on the 29th, which is really a listening session primarily then we're going to get CBRC and then the next meeting we're going to approve it. I don't think that allows for adequate time for board discussion about the budget. And I would suggest adding more sessions and also like three and a half weeks. Seems like we are not doing our fiduciary responsibility in that amount of time with the billion dollar budget. The other thing I would suggest is that adding in whenever the staffing is going to go out to the schools since that's the vast majority of the district's budget that we don't wait till April to find out what this the staffing is going to be that we have a session scheduled around the time when the staffing is going to go out to the schools. Again. Once that goes out it's making some major decisions for the school district in terms of the budget that we're then going to be asked to approve. So those would be my suggestions for the changes to the adjustments to the calendar. I recorded those and I would just note that we would be providing the our proposed budget document, both volumes, a couple of weeks before you would see it on April 23rd. So in line with typical requirements. So it would be. I just looked it looks like it's a little over six weeks before approval. So it'd be use when we get it two weeks in advance, it's great because I think then actually that first board meeting we can actually use it. It's not just like something just landed in your inbox, but if we don't get it then it does make it super compressed because, for example, we get it two weeks in advance. We we can get our questions in and so that first meeting is actually a work session versus the superintendent presenting the budget. So if you're willing to commit to that in there, then. But I still think essentially we just have after that first meeting one meeting in which we're having a substantive discussion before we're actually asked, which would be the seventh before we're being asked to approve it. Doesn't February 20th have a work session? But that's not with the actual budget that's been present. That's not the actual. The superintendent's not presenting his budget until the April 23rd and then then we're being asked to vote on May 21st on to but are we involved in the work sessions as they go? We are, but it's not actually the the budget. This is not the actual budget presented. It's usually around a variety of different topics. But we've been knowing what's coming. We have two other hands raised. Director DePass. Director Scott so just in order of Alphabet, I'm going to do call on Director DePass first. Thank you for alphabetizing me. That usually works in my favorite I wanted to echo the comments made by Director Brim Edwards and add that I'm really happy to see by the way, that we have this many meetings. I think we've increased the number of the calendar has gotten longer since I've been on the board. To that end, I think that's really important that we're being transparent and I'd love to see a second meeting out in the community and I'm toggling between the schedule and the meeting. So allow me just a second. The other thing is that the notice in April going To the Oregonian. Does that correspond with some, you know, very active, you know, family and community engagement? So it's not just a little, you know, paragraph in the Oregonian which, you know, not very many people read. Actually some people do, but not everyone, but it's probably required. And then I was also curious about adding a little bit more room in the budget so that we could. I found that the CBRC was really helpful this last budget cycle in really helping us look at the, at the budget, what we were, what the trade offs were and had some very strong suggestions. And so I would love to see them involved in the meeting. I'm sorry, I'm looking at. I can't read it very well. Not the meeting that they present, but maybe a meeting prior to that where we're able to bring the community and the CBRC together. Maybe it's the listening session that's scheduled. Sorry, I'm just not able to blow this up big enough. The bottom line is I'd like to see an additional meeting added that the CBRC and the community could learn about and that we do some, some community engagement that gets a little bit more participation for those people that are curious about it. Also agree with the recommendation to when the staffing comes out to take that into consideration when we're scheduling so that people have a chance to respond. The community has a chance. Thank you. All right, Director Scott. Thanks. I'm actually going to take a little bit of the opposite view and close watchers of the board know that Director Madwards and I have this conversation every year. I just, I actually think this calendar works really well. I think this calendar is very consistent with. With. With local budget law which, which every other jurisdiction, both school boards and non school boards. Boards operate under in the state of Oregon. And there are some really good reasons for these timelines. I mean, I just want to, you know, we do have a billion dollar budget. I know the city of Portland has a six or seven billion dollars budget. They have very similar timeline. My understanding is Multnomah county has a very similar timeline as well. I think one of the reasons that I would point out is that the earlier a proposed budget is given, the less accurate the data usually is. There's less spending data throughout the year. There's fewer actuals. It's harder to estimate any fund balance. Obviously in legislative years. It's harder to understand what the state is going to do as well that that's not going to be the case in this next year's budget. I also think it's really incumbent on us as a board to deliver our priorities much, much earlier than the proposed budget. And I think the reason why I react a little bit to the idea of giving us more time to review the proposed budget is because it kind of takes the pressure off us to be giving all of those ideas and priorities now. And by now I mean now in September. One of the things I might add to this would be a fall budget work session sometime, you know, in November, perhaps maybe early December, where we can really hear both the priorities of the superintendent and staff, but also bring our priorities as a board. The superintendent is the budget officer for the district and you know, proposes the budget based upon guidelines from the board. And so I think it's really incumbent on us to be getting all of that well in advance, months and months in advance of the proposed budget. That stage from the proposed budget to when we both approve and adopt it is really there should be no surprises. And in my experience on the board last four years, there aren't any surprises when that comes. And it should really just be focused on sort of maybe some last minute tweaks and turns. And I think if we are concentrating our review as a board into that four to six weeks, that's actually going to make the process not work very well. So I, I actually would adopt this calendar as is and I would really encourage us to be thinking about how do we communicate as a board our priorities six months in advance of the proposed budget being being presented to us. Thank you Chair Scott, have any other questions, comments, thoughts? So just going to sort of maybe a make the observation. So from the budget calendar. I I still think we, I've never seen, I've never seen the board. This is when we get into having meetings that go till 11 or 12 at night because that's when the time we can ask questions because we actually have the budget. But I would suggest then also Director Scott to your point is that we be really specific that it that we don't have. For example, I'm just gonna take the November 7th school board meeting that's right now supposed to be just the point of the CBRC but that we actually have a discussion about priorities versus an exercise about here's learning about the budget or we're going to share some data but having an explicit budget priorities discussion but set as in the fall versus just maybe a topic on something like here's one topic we're going to educate you about or that we're going to be focused on but have that explicit budget priority discussion in the fall as well, because then we can see like to your point. So if we have the budget priority discussion, we get the budget two weeks in advance, we have an opportunity to look at it. We can look at that alignment. Obviously there's mid year or yeah, mid year things that could impact our thinking from the fall to when we get the budget. But then we've already sort of set that framework, we've got the budget and then I do think it's more efficient. But if we don't use our previous meetings to talk about the priorities or to talk about staffing, which is always, always an issue, if we don't talk about staffing in February, then it does get all balled up at the end of the session. So I think it's a good idea to have a very explicit fall priority besetting session. I appreciate the conversation. I guess as I'm listening to it, the question for me always when thinking about resource allocation or where we should propose to make investments is where are we in our strategic plan and sort of what's the next set of action steps we should be diving into that informs our budget development versus a widely open ended question about where should we spend our monies. So I agree. I think an earlier conversation will be better to sort of talk about that, at least at a high level because I do think that should be the primary way that we're informing how we propose to shape our budget for the spring. Just another question. I don't know if this needs to be on the budget calendar, but I'm we have a very specific role to play with the SIA account. Is that baked in here or does that have to happen at one of our meetings? Because that seems like a whole other separate thing as well. And if we are required to do it, I would hate to have that one like one piece of the budget be this is our one meeting and where it's going to be on the grant. So I don't know where that gets baked in or if that's a separate process and not on the budget calendar. So my understanding of that and I'm going to look to my partner here for expertise and validation. But we do anticipate to your question, Director Brim Edwards, that there will be specific discussion about SIA this fall and this is going to be a blend of programmatic and student outcome data along with regulatory requirements of the plan and sort of having an integrated discussion about program outcomes and resources. And that's required by the new law that created the integrated grant framework so that you can anticipate coming sooner than the overall budget development or the proposed budget. Certainly that will follow in the spring and that's a function of the deadlines that are created by the state. But certainly the integrated grant resources will definitely be internal, an important part of that overall comprehensive proposed budget conversation for 2425. So you'll hear about it twice in both those settings, but most of the work will be front loaded into the fall. Would you say that's true? Yes. We'll have an update on integrated grant in the fall. All right, Any other questions? Comments? Director Scott? Director Pass. You guys are good. Director Silverstein, you okay? Yes, thank you. All right. All right. Thank you both. Thank you, directors. We'll be back taking your feedback. We'll discuss it and we'll report back on October 10th. Thank you so much. So next we will be reviewing the most recent data which was released just last week. Before I pass it to Superintendent, I wanted to say a few words. Over the past two years, I have been fortunate enough to come across some powerful statements that have truly inspired me. One such statement is great things takes time to unfold and the journey towards success is a continuous process of growth and learning. Another statement that resonated deeply with me is, you know, every day presents an opportunity to embrace change and cultivate a mindset of adaptability for change management is not a one time event, but a daily practice. Now, I wouldn't say exactly like that. So these words of wisdom have fueled my determination and reminded me that with patience, perseverance and a commitment to to personal growth that we all can achieve remarkable things. In 2022. We had a memo when the last data points came out and it said no. We foresaw these gaps and we're already working on the plan to close them. This is a collective effort that requires of all, requires us all. That plan encompass powerful strategies such as employment, implementing instructional framework, aligning grade level standards, utilizing data driven approaches, embracing culturally affirming practices, adopting new curriculum and fostering continuous professional learning. Together, these initiatives is supposed to pave the way for a brighter future for our kids. I believe now that the moment to embrace transformative change is where we can unlock our true potential for our future kids beyond their wildest dreams. We have the power now to shape the future of our young educational achievements, our youth educational achievements. Our children are embarking on a remarkable journey where they will compete on a global scale stage for extraordinary opportunities and fulfilling careers. Our kids are not just competing with other kids in Oregon. They are embarking on a journey to surpass their own limits and reach for greatness that knows no boundaries. They have the incredible opportunity to showcase their talents and abilities on a global stage. Their livelihoods and mere existence are the driving force behind their unwavering determination to overcome any obstacles that come their way. Now it's time for us to seize the moment. They have no more time to waste weight. We must rise up and unleash our full potential to harness the resources at our disposal and utilize the knowledge that we know that propels transformation of young minds. We have the power to uplift and empower our students beyond measure, far surpassing our current efforts. There's A quote from Dr. Charlene Williams. It said we owe our students much better than we are delivering right now. She said we have to buckle up and deliver given the resources that we have and information that we know to move the data forward. Our children are facing a critical moment and it's a call to action. Let us work towards a future where every child can thrive. Let us find inspiration and opportunity to make a difference. Together, we must create an environment where every child surpasses expectations and achieve greatness. The present moment holds immense power as I summon every single one of us to rise above. Let us heed the words of the governor who stated the results are unacceptable and must improve. We need to pick up the pace. I challenge her to be courageous and pass the Budget act, the QEM to our board, our superintendent, district staff, teachers, bus drivers, nutritional services. We must do more. We must be better. We must be bold. We have to be transformational at this time. And that's what so now I'll leave it up to the superintendent. Thank you Chair Hollins. I appreciate your words. I know we share the same urgency and goals for our students. So we're here at the main entree of tonight's meeting and that's to have a chance to take a first look at this past spring's statewide summit of assessments known as the OSAS Oregon Statewide Assessment System, which gets administered in a couple of content areas, primarily English Language Arts and math across schools, grade levels, specific student groups. We'll be talking about that before we jump into a brief presentation and jump into the more important conversation, I also want to share a few words with your indulgence. So I'll start off by saying while we are observing instances of growth and improvement in our results, which is positive, we still do have racial groups that continue to demonstrate persistently low levels of proficiency. So, like you, I'm not satisfied with any gap in performance between our Black and brown students and their white peers. It's our belief as educational leaders here at PPS that if we continue to stay focused on the strategies we've put in place but remain engaged in continuous improvement, we can continue to raise achievement for every one of our students. So we have taken several steps to make our vision a reality for all students. You named some of those chair Hollands because we've talked about them on many evenings. Calibrating around a new instructional framework, maintaining a focus on standards aligned teaching and learning. Adopting new higher quality curriculum materials that our educators have never had in their hands before. Offering aligned rich professional learning experiences for our teachers and our leaders. Now this school year we've also added full time school based instructional coaches, adding to the learning acceleration specialists, high dosage tutors, early literacy specialists and various mental behavioral health professionals to support our students non academic needs that will also support their readiness to learn. You're right. School system transformation, it isn't accomplished overnight. But we have worked diligently for years to build up and establish all the necessary practices required to drive district improvement. We all recognize that we can and should do better when it comes to closing these persistent achievement gaps. And that's especially true with black student achievement. And so while we're witnessing continued positive signs, incremental evidence that we're moving the needle, we're clear regarding the primary task of narrowing persistent opportunity gaps and the need to accelerate black student outcomes. So for those in the audience, you could just raise your hand if you're a school or district administrator here at pps. That's most of the audience directors you'll note that are here this evening. They're here to observe and listen to the conversation and contribute to the discussion as appropriate. See, many of these folks are on the front line each and every single day supporting and supervising the work of our schools, our leaders and our educators. They're the ones that have the firsthand knowledge of the work and the improvement efforts that are occurring in our school communities. I'm going to hand it over to Dr. Adams, our chief of research, assessment and accountability. He's going to be presenting our district's disaggregated data at a high level from the Springs Pass state assessment. He's joined at the table by several more of our senior leadership. All known characters to you. And I know that colleagues here in the audience, they'll be anxious to join in the conversation too, given the direct nature of their work that contributes to the results that we're observing here tonight. With that, Dr. Adams, thank you, Superintendent. Tonight we will be entering the presentation at the middle based on a request by the board chair. And I just wanted to provide some context about the presentation for people who may be watching at home and wondering why we're not or we're not starting at slide one. The presentation, as uploaded to our website, was intended to go from a broad view of comparing us to the state, to comparing our results year over year, to comparing how well or not we're doing based on the pandemic learning losses and where we are today, and then to have a conversation to invite Principal Barry and Assistant Principal Martinez from Sitton elementary up to have some discussion about the leadership moves that they've made at their building that are seeing some individual success. So we were intending to sort of funnel from state level to site specific information. And so at the request of the chair, we'll be beginning the conversation. We're sharing information about our board chair, our board goals. Then if it would be okay, we would love to have Principal Berry and Assistant Principal Martinez share their information about what they're doing at Sitton elementary. And then we could have the discussion around the board goals that, that I believe the board is wanting us to have. But I just want to make sure that order feels okay. So you want to do the presentation with the sitting. I. I would like to talk. Just go through the couple slides on the board goals, then it leads into the conversation for sitting elementary and then come back and have the discussion on the board goals, if that would be okay. Sure. Okay. All right. So as, as the board well knows, we have four board goals for our students. Those are third grade reading, fifth grade mathematics, eighth grade readiness, which is proficiency in both English language arts and mathematics, and graduation rate based on our most recent OSAS data. Tonight will be focusing on the board goals around third grade reading, fifth grade mathematics, and eighth grade readiness. We will examine both our year over year growth and the extent to which targets for our student groups were met in third grade reading. You'll note on the slide that we see that our Latinx students and our White students saw increased performance while all other student groups saw declines in student achievement. Want to caution us whenever we look at our, as I typically do, whenever we're looking at the performance of our Native American and our Pacific Islander students, that those are extremely long, small counts of students and so there can be wild swings of proficiency based on just the change of one or two students. When we look at a chart showing which board goals were met and which were not for third grade reading, the Data are not great. We see that we did not meet the board goals for our targeted student groups in third grade reading. And I'll leave this slide up for moment. For fifth grade mathematics, we see that all student groups, with the exception of our Pacific Islander students, showed year over year growth in 2023 compared to 2022. Here, the increases range from 1.3 percentage points to a little over 4 percentage points. And so one of the things we've been noticing is that we're seeing a more acceleration in student growth in mathematics because we're in that. We believe that is because we're in that second year of the mathematics adoption, whereas we were in the first year of the English language arts adoption. So we think that's one of the reasons. And when you're in that first, first year, you often see an implementation dip where your scores actually go down as educators are learning the curriculum and getting their feet under them and really working to bring the curriculum and the instructional resources to life. In examining the status of 5th grade, the 5th grade math board goal, we can see that while most student groups did make progress, they did not make the required progress to meet the board goals. Notable exceptions include our Asian students and our native students. 8th grade readiness measures, the percentage of students who are both proficient, as I mentioned, in English language arts and in mathematics. We know that entering high school with a strong foundation in the basics put students on a successful trajectory for this metric. Black and Pacific Islander students saw no change in performance year over year. Latinx, multiracial and White students saw improved student performance, and there was a huge positive swing in the performance of our Native students. Again, we want to interpret that swing with caution due to the relative small size of that group. And when we examine the status of 8th grade readiness metric against the targets for each student group, we see that Native American students met their goal while all other targeted student groups did not. And so we know we have much work to do. As I said when I was at Sitton last week, won't be personally satisfied until our bars are at 100%. Although we are pleased to see some positive progress in the face of local and national results that don't point to positive progress at all. Some conclusions very quickly before we invite Principal Berry and Assistant Principal Martinez up to the Diaz, we're bucking the national trends in student achievement. I don't think that should be taken lightly. Across the nation, we're seeing declines in ELA and steeper declines in mathematics. Here we're seeing some growth, particularly in mathematics, in terms of reaching. Lots of school districts and states talk about whether or not they have reached pre pandemic levels of achievement, knowing that pre pandemic levels of achievement weren't ideal, but that is a marker, knowing we had interrupted learning and learning loss. We're seeing here in PPS that we are approaching and in some cases at some grade levels exceeding pre pandemic levels. And for student groups that are still below pre pandemic levels, most groups are demonstrating growth. We've said before that our achievement levels exceed the state in all grades in both subjects. And we've continued that progress, as was noted that this was occurring in some previous years. And then finally, when we disaggregate the data, we still see that we have performance gaps along the lines of race. Those are not acceptable. As I've said before in the past, and for most student groups, the board goals were not met. There was a request to understand and highlight schools that were meeting with some success. And on the screen before you are some elementary and middle schools that are seeing overall growth in both English language arts and mathematics. Those schools include Sitton, Whitman, Rigler, Lent, Arlita, Creston, Lee, Irvington, and Markham at the elementary level and include at the middle school level, Kellogg, Tubman, Beaumont, and Jackson. I'll leave that here for just a second so you can see what those overall increases were. And next, there was also a request to hear directly more frequently from principals. And we were asked specifically about schools where the achievement needle was moving for African American students. So I'm very pleased that we have with us tonight to highlight Sitton Elementary Principal Berry and Assistant Principal Martinez. Not only was there some double digit growth overall, but we had almost double digit growth in ELA for African American students in double digit growth in mathematics. Both of these figures are among the highest that we see for African American achievement here in pps. So without any further ado, like to welcome Principal Berry and Assistant Principal Martinez down to the table. Thank you both for being here so much. All right. And thank you so much for the invitation. Good evening. I'm Becky Barry, principal at Sitton Elementary School. And I'm David Martinez, the assistant principal at Sidon Elementary School. Well, thank you. And if we. We're gonna mix it up a little bit and if we could go to the next slide. Okay. We're gonna start there and give you a moment to just kind of take a look. We really appreciate getting to be invited to your living room this evening, but we want to tell you a little bit about where we spend most of our Days. So we are Sitton Elementary School. We are the farthest north school in Portland. We are up there near Terminal 3 and the end of Fessenden when it turned. When it turns into Lombard. And we serve 350 delightfully funny, curious, brilliant, diverse, and always students in grades K through 5. So we have three classes at every grade level, one of which is taught predominantly in Spanish as part of our dual language immersion program. The other two are taught predominantly in English. We love our DLI program, and we see it as a huge lever for a lot of our growth as especially for our English language learners and our Latino students. And we are also Portland's first neighborhood school, which means two years ago, we began welcoming every single child who lives in our neighborhood into our school, regardless of their disability eligibility, category, or level of need. And that has also been a huge lever in us growing our student gains. Because when we focus on supporting students, students from a universal lens are students who have the greatest amount of needs. Every single child and adult in our entire community benefits from that. And so we are so proud of the work that our educators do with kids every day. Because if we want to talk about the geography of change, the geography of change is what happens between the interactions of adults and kids and kids and kids in the building every day. And so we're really here to represent their work. And. And our shift in data is really about a shift in small choices that each of us kind of made collectively. Because our data as a CSI school in the 1819 school year, where 12% of our students and only 8% of our African American students were reading at grade level, was not at all a reflection of what they are capable of. Rather, that was a reflection of the skill and collective will in our building at the time. And so that's how anybody who comes into our building who is interviewing for a position, that's how we introduce our school. And then we ask them to take a look at our true north behind us. And we ask the question, does this reflect your values also? And the reason that we start that way is because it has a system of belief, a system of habit in it. And also it points to our outcomes. And we have done so much work in our building around the instructional framework and our curricular tools, and those are really foundational pieces to the change that we have undergone at Sitton. But it's also only one component of it. And so if we could go back to the first slide, Mr. Martinez is going to talk about this model for collective efficacy that we've been working on to lift those things to move everybody along in our building. So I'll turn it over to you. So this was a belief belt that was introduced to me a couple years ago, actually from a professional development through the state. And it stuck with me one, because I personally identified with it, but also really spoke to what I was seeing from the district level at our school building. So we started out last year with me introducing it, and almost at every other staff meeting, we reintroduce it and we talk about it. And it really started with a belief. And it started with a belief both with Becky and I, but with our staff and with our community and really defining that our beliefs and what we believe our students are capable of directly impact the opportunities and the systems that we build for them. So we do not have the belief that they will succeed. The belief that they can succeed and the belief that they should succeed will never give them those opportunities to demonstrate that we'll never build those systems that will offer those opportunities to them. And if you don't build those systems and those opportunities, you will never have the chance to see what they can achieve. And so that was really fundamental for us as a staff and as an administration to really hone ourselves that we believe our students are possible. We believe that they need these opportunities. And we believe that with these skills and opportunities, they're going to go far. And so with those beliefs, we offered them opportunities. And these were small opportunities. It was a shift from simply saying they can't, to they're just going to, I'm going to try, just going to try and see. I. Because if you never give them the opportunity to try, they will never have the opportunity to show them what you can do, what they can do. And so we did those shifts from small to large changes throughout the school year. But what we saw is opportunities for our students really shifted. And the achievement, slowly but surely through PLCs, through everyday interactions, it was simple conversations of, I tried it, and I was astounded by what I saw. And consequently, I'm going to offer that more. I'm going to rig it up, I'm not going to lower my bar, but I'm going to raise the bar for students. And subsequently, that was our theme for last year, raising the bar. And so the achievements that we saw, while they were surprising, they were affirming, they weren't too shocking because we finally saw the opportunities our students were given by our educators because the beliefs in them shifted, the beliefs in their families shifted, beliefs in our community really shifted through the last three years, this was not an overnight success or an overnight transformation. We're definitely still not done. We haven't arrived at all. But we're definitely seeing some of the beginning fruits of that labor of just shifting common day beliefs, offering new opportunities, and then subsequently building those systems. That's where we're really seeing some achievement. So if we could go to the slide that is titled Mindsets and Beliefs. And so we've been collecting these things from our educators that come in every day saying, oh, I read this really interesting thing or I saw this speaker and just from, you know, keeping up with the national conversation about what's working, working. And so this list changes every year. Some things we no longer need. And then there are things that come up through our leadership team and our site council that we really need to add. And so one of those things is that all students are general education students first. And that special education is a spectrum of services, not a person or a place. And when you have that belief, you're able to shift towards a system of inclusion where all students belong at your school. And it, it feels different. But you can't have the and positive, but you can't just have mindsets and beliefs. You also have to build systems that support those beliefs. And so if we could go to the next slide, next one. These are just a few of the systems that stem from beliefs that we have built. And again, these are all these systems come from having a instructional framework where we're all speaking the same language when we come to leadership, when we're walking through classrooms, they rely on us all having the same curriculum and understanding how to use the curricular tools. They all come from the professional development that we've been receiving. They're not separate at all from those things. But it's really just these are examples of the leadership moves and systems that take it from vision to lived reality in the building. And so I think one of those pieces to just get specific is around consult and our pre referral process before the pandemic, we had one of the highest rates of office discipline referrals for an elementary school in the entire district. And that was because we had a system of going to respond in the moment. It was a reactive system. And so a teacher would have a hard time. They would look at the discipline matrix, they would call for assistance, someone would come to the building and try to, you know, repair or reset a kid. And the impact of that system, that reactive system, is that kids, especially kids of color, were spending so much time missing out on core instruction. And our educators were getting the unintended message that they didn't have the tools that they needed to support all learners in their classrooms. And so we shifted to a consult system and we said if you can predict a problem, you can prevent it. And no one has to know all the answers and no one needs to know everything. And we all have to be curious learners. And so if we can predict that someone's going to have a hard time, then you have the responsibility to find a time to meet with one of our consult members. And that is our extremely robust staff of two instructional specialists, a school climate coach, a comprehensive school psychologist, a school counselor, all of those supports and meet to problem solve. Not because anybody has the answer necessarily, but, but rather that through that conversation we're going to learn how to better support students. And so that has shifted. I think that this year so far we have two office discipline referrals and a lot of kids in class enjoying their learning. And so it's been a big shift. So we go to the last slide. Next one. This is our data comparatively. So over the years, 18, 19, that's our pre pandemic and disaggregated all students, students with disabilities is the swt, our black students, our multiple race students, Latino, Native American and white. So our achievement, as I said earlier, while we were thrilled, a little shocked, it wasn't surprising given the shifts in beliefs and the opportunities that our staff offered our students and the systems that were built both administratively with our staff themselves building the systems because they believed in their students, these achievements came to fruition and we're not there where we can say we did it, but we're definitely on our way. We look forward to continued success and to really see where our students can, can thrive. Thank you, Principal Barry and Assistant principal Martinez. Do board members have any questions of the administrative team? It's just. Okay, so I don't know how we're going to answer them. Did you see? Did you see or how did you deal with pushback from your staff when you were trying to make your, your shift to go from one way to another another way? Our staff is, and I believe this is a. We are consumers of beliefs, right? Like we get to choose what we believe. And the least dangerous assumption for me as a building leader always is that our educators are the most invested in the success of their students. And because I believe that, I know that to be true, I am always going to listen. And what I'm going to hear is I'm going to hear the Next great idea. And so it's not about pushback because we're all on the same team. And that belief belt is really a system of if the system is working for kids, it's going to show up in multiple data points. It's going to show up in our successful school survey, in our map data, and just like that street level data of how it feels in the building. And then we're going to use that, that data to reaffirm those beliefs around all kids can do this, all of our educators can do this. And I mean I also want to add that I think that there is often a misunderstanding of change leadership, that it's about getting other people to do stuff. And I learned early on as an educator that you can't get anybody to do anything. Like I learned that in my first year of teaching. But rather we can change what we're doing. And when we change what we're doing, when we change what habits we have, it has a huge ripple effect on the interaction that's happening. And so we spend a lot of time in reflection when things don't go well, thinking about like what could we have done differently or better. And I think my leadership takeaway for us who have, you know, we leaders, we deserve none of the credit and we have all of the responsibility because the work, the credit really goes to our educators and our students and our families. And in order to set those conditions, we always need to think about how am I going to show up differently? Like what are the interactions that I'm not having that I should be having? What are the questions that I need to be asking that I'm not asking. And so I think it really is an interesting internal reflective piece. I like that answer. The other question I have is around your consult and pre referral. So if you can predict a problem, then you can do something to engage to try to figure out what we can do about that said problem. And then you referenced it based on a policy that states that you look looking at a discipline module we have, this is what we're supposed to do. So what you added is that something that was given like from district guidance or is this something that you came up with your on your own and how does it work with or against what the current policies are around, how to do that consult and pre referral that that aspect of it. Professional consultation is part of our teacher standards and practices. It's part of our licensure programs. It's part of every grad program that there is to be a teacher or an Administrator and it is also embedded in our MTSS systems and I think one of the big lever and as leaders we get to choose where am I going to turn the volume up. And oftentimes I think that we feel the most comfortable organizationally turning the volume up on the document, the flowchart. It feels safe. Like I know what's going to happen next. But when we turn the volume up on the David, I don't know what are we going to do? Like that feels a little scary. And so to answer your question, but that's about like what change am I going to make? What are the questions that I should be asking that I'm not asking? And so simple answer to your question is it is embedded in so many systems that we have and I think it's a real opportunity for us to lean into more of those adaptive leadership elements as we not take on new things but further refine what we have in place. I think also the utilization of our comprehensive psychologists on site full time who, who runs those meetings and the agendas and supports and follow ups is essential to the success of that program. Yeah, I had you mentioned the consultant pre referral program had a psychologist, a counselor and one other thing. We have a halftime social worker, we have two interventionists and none of these systems could run without the people power. And not just the people people people power, but us all being together as a team year after year building trust and saying what didn't work. What are we going to do differently? You know, because I've been at Siton, this is my eighth year in our building and this is David's third year and we have Dana Nuremberg in the back, Forever Falcon and principal of Sitton Elementary School. And so I think that, that, I mean to go back to the concept comments at the very beginning from the superintendent, time is an essential ingredient to change because this would have been a very presentation, different presentation if we had been sitting up here two years ago. When did you get all the help for the consultant pre referral? When did you get the extra people? The psychologist, the counselor and the social worker? Yeah, that has been new since the SIA funds. And then also we've had an instructional coach that we have funded through our title funds. And now to have that just kind of built into our staffing ratio has been fabulous so that we've been able to continue to fund our two interventionists that you know, yesterday and today they ran 90 minute data meetings with every single educator. And then in the afternoon during our staff meeting time, during our teaching and Learning Tuesday, they also facilitated our new power math meeting. And so they're running these systems for people where educators are getting to come together and problem solve and solution, find and be learners. And that is where the change is happening for us. Well, I was there and I was wonderful the other day and saw your counselor and your wonderful dog and you can just feel it there, how well it was. Yeah, yeah. I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about the. You said you had the PLC working weekly and also the teacher collaboration time and yeah, I'm just curious about what kind of like format structures and also maybe what supports you have. I guess I just want to hear more about it PLCs. So professional learning communities, Becky and I and our instructional specialists facilitate those every Friday. So that's really important. That keeps Becky and I's hands in the curriculum and what's going on in the classrooms. We're part of those meetings. We know the data, we have our hands on it, and we get to hear directly from our teachers what's working and what's not. And central to those meetings is really looking at the gaps of our students. We were really intentional of looking at the data and just aggregating it, looking at focal students. So identifying a group of five or six students in your classroom that you're going to identify, primarily students of color and tracking that data, looking at it, collaborating with your educators at the grade level and also support to see how do we fill these gaps in the now. So that's really essential, I think for Becky and I last year and this year to be not just sitting there, but leading those meetings. It's not just a benefit for academics, but also joy to see the growth and the belief of our teachers and educators shift. And again, we really do see that belt happening in those 40 minutes throughout the day. So it's essential, I think to our leaders and if I could chime in, Director Wong, we share your curiosity, which is why Dr. Franco and I are having Dr. Gilke, who was here earlier and her team, they're having one on one interviews with all the principals that have seen the growth that they've seen, that we've highlighted. So we can understand what leadership moves are happening across our building. So we can understand what we can help support bring to scale. All right, thank you, Principal Barry, thank you. Really appreciate you being here. Great job you guys. All right, my understanding is the board desired to have some discussion around the board goals and joined here by got a whole team of doctors, Dr. Franco, Dr. Proctor, Dr. Armstrong, and I are here, yes. To respond to questions you may have. So I'm going to refer to my colleagues for first, because I have a whole bunch. So I'm going refer to them first if anyone had any questions for them. All right. Hearing none. Director depas has her hand raised. Thank you. I had my hand raised and I've lowered it. But I wanted to just thank Principal Barry and Assistant Principal Martinez for the presentation. And also I got to witness with my own eyes their school community last week. And it was fabulous. And the therapy dog was really cute. I just wanted to highlight a few things that stuck out for me about the presentation. And that was a couple of the mindsets. That's that student success is a direct result of adult. What the adults do. And also that graph, and I think it was mindset number nine that says, success is not a straight line. It's very nonlinear. And so I was really interested in. And also this idea about, you know, turning the mirror on yourself and, you know, looking at where, you know, you can't blame stuff on other people. Outcomes. We have to look at our own behavior. And I started thinking about how I could show up differently. I can't change anybody on the board. Sometimes I would like to, many times I would, but I can change myself. And that would be to advocate for, I mean, a board that has literally two committees that would be student success and policy. And if we're really focused on student outcomes, then we need to be, like, hyper focused on what matters. And right now, to your point, Director Chair Hollins, about what. We're at a transformative stage. We are also at a period where we could look seriously at mimicking what other school districts do, even a couple in Oregon that literally have one board meeting a month and one board meeting where they're focused on policy and student success as a board community. So I'm just saying that because I recognize that I can't change anybody, but I can absolutely change the way that I show up. And so it's just. It's just a kind of a question or comment out there about can we actually. We have a retreat coming up. Can we give some serious thought to how we show up as adults? What are the things that we can drop that aren't student focused? What are the committees we can drop? And we can start with the audit committee. So I'm happy, you know, be happy to go to once or twice. Just required absolute bare minimum requirement for meetings if that would translate to student outcomes. That made a difference here. Michelle, you should see our auditor. She's here. I know she is. And I'm sure it's not a reflection on our senior auditor. It's more a reflection on what I have in the sphere of my control, which is only myself and my body and, you know, what can they do for change management? And it really is about looking inward and saying, you know, do we need the numerous committees or do we focus on policy, on student success? And that's it. It's just a question that's out there. I have. So thank you. Thank you for being in the audience. Senior Auditor. Thanks, Michelle. All right, so I'm going to start with some of the questions that I and I sent them earlier on, so hopefully had time to look at them and stuff. So my first question is at what numerical threshold does the data reach a level of statistical significance or insignificant that PPS shares with us? Sure, that's a great question. Statistical significance is usually used in research where let's say our entire population is 300 and we've only worked with 30 or 40 of the students. Then you run statistical significant tests because you're trying to understand is what you see of the 30 and 40 students representative of what you would see of all 300 students if you had a chance to work with all 300 of them. When we talk about our OSAS results, we're looking at 95% of the population of this school system and the tested grades. And so you don't necessarily do statistical significance testing because you have all of or just almost all of the students represented in the data. So the differences are those differences and they matter. So when we bring up statistical significance or not, and just help me because I've been trying to go through this data all weekend long. So if you have a data that is when we talk about proficiency and you have, you know that those are the tested as say 10 students and one of the students only one student or three students or only three students you know is proficient. And so that gives a 30% grade. Right. When the population of that school is much larger, is that would that be considered significant, insignificant data or. Because I guess for me it looks like it's representation of the whole school. When you're only talking about three students or a whole student, class and grade and student group for the whole school. Right. That would not be an appropriate use of the idea of statistical significance. I understand what you're getting at. We have schools with relatively smaller numbers of students of color. We believe that each of those students matters and counts and that we want to celebrate when we're seeing the needle move, when you're. If you've been in a school where your performance of students was zero and you've brought that performance up to say 45%, that's a big deal, whether it's 100 students or 20 students, because you're getting closer to 100%. The goal is to get to 100% percent. Okay, so when I was limited the data, so I looked at the data and first thing you guys brought up was the comparison to the. The state, you know, and you've already mentioned that the state, that we have already outperformed the state. So if we have historically outperformed the state, what significance was it to broadcast at this time versus any other time that we outdo the state? Well, I think the differences that we saw that you, that you may have noted in Dr. Williams memo around the data is that the state saw very little movement in their numbers. In addition to that, the state is not seeing a return to improvement to pre pandemic levels, and we are. And so I think when I looked at and understood the national story of student performance based on the nation's report card, that is the NAEP assessment, when I think about our preliminary look at the state data before they released it, comparatively, we could have seen a dip and not been outperforming the state as much as we had been, but we didn't. So that's what we were trying to celebrate. Okay, so he said we didn't see a dip. You mean. Are you talking about overall? Overall, we talk about our board goals. There were dips. Right. And so help me, I mean, I'm trying to figure out what is your thoughts of why we've seen those dips in those certain student groups versus other student groups? I think that's a great question. What I know of my own work in turnaround schools as a administrator is that the first thing you see is achievement for all students rise. And then once you see that needle moving in the right direction, you're then usually able to really target focus on particular focal students, whether those be students with disabilities, multilingual learners, or students of color. While I can't sit here and say I know exactly why student groups saw dips in performance, I can say that we're concerned when we see dips of performance because we believe that we are empowering our educators and our building leaders with the tools that should alleviate that performance. And as you heard Principal Berry talk about, in many ways it comes down to belief. Belief in students and belief in self As a teacher, when I was in middle school, special ed teacher, my students went as far as I believed they could go and as far as I believed I could take them. And that's what we're trying to empower educators to understand that the grade level standard, that level of rigor is what is fundamental to helping students achieve. And anything less than that is not going to. It's not going to cut it, it's not going to make the muster, and the students won't make it if we don't do that. All right, next question. So when I looked at the data for the student group and a lot of student groups, when I compared it to the states, the state was higher than ours. So when you look at African Americans and English major arts for the third grade, the state average was 22%. Our average was 15.5%. So when. So I'm trying to use. Trying to understand how, when you compare it overall to the state, did you use that same rationale when we're looking at our board goals as well? So we did not compare our board goals to state data. As we noted in the answers we provided to the questions that we had far enough in advance, the state does not calculate 8th grade readiness. Right. They don't give us that idea of which individual students are both proficient in English language arts and mathematics. So we didn't necessarily do those comparisons. We thought the most appropriate comparison when we start looking internally again. Right. Our conversation was compared to the state overall, compared to ourselves overall, year over year, by race, by special education, compared to pre pandemic learning. We know we have a lot of. We know we have a lot of room to grow and we have a lot of work to do. Okay, well, I been hearing that for three years. We got a lot of work to do. We have. I get that part. I guess my question is that I'm looking at the data, and if the data is not showing a change, at least for the three years I've been here, I don't know how long it's been. Even in 2019, we had a dip. And this was before pre pandemic. If we're still seeing these same levels that is constant for these student groups, why are we not doing something different? Because when I looked, I looked at data almost all the way back to, like, almost 2015. It's almost. Almost the same data for some of our student groups. Why are we not doing anything different? So I would offer that since we've had Dr. Proctor on the team, we have been doing something different. We we have been doing a number of things differently I can speak to since August 2021. But actually before I arrived, the district took the community and stakeholders through a process to identify elements that were key in the strategic plan since coming on board. What I have shared with the board previously is some initial findings that we found in in our academic diagnostic. And then with that we forged forward with the adoption of high quality instructional materials. As the board would recall, we shared with the board a couple of years back, because this is my third year as well, that we were in corrective action with the staff state, because here at PPS we had not adopted curriculum along the timeline and cycle recommended by the state and we had to come to corrective action. So we have since embarked on adoption of our early learning curriculum. In my first year was the first year of implementation, implementation of our foundational skills. And then in that same year we went through the process of adopting K5ELA curriculum, actually K12ELA curriculum and 612 math curriculum. We were in the first year of implementation in the 2021, 2022 school year of our K5 math curriculum. So what we have done differently is number one adopted curriculum. Second thing that we had done differently is the district did not have a process, a streamlined process of focusing on teacher professional learning. And what we have developed is a department, department, a group that is focused on teacher professional learning. And with that, in going through the process, using the data that we collected from our academic diagnostics and our instructional reviews that was previously shared with the board by myself a couple of years ago, we then developed an instructional framework. Instructional framework is a set of look fors that identifies clearly what does good instruction and what should good instruction look like here at pps? Because we were seeing inequities in instructional opportunities that were being provided to students. We saw that students did not have even access to grade level aligned curriculum, high quality text or practices. And so with that department of teacher professional learning, we honed in specifically on how it is that we can now bring these things together in an effort to provide professional learning to our teachers and also to our building leaders about our shifts and our priorities. Those are three things that we did differently going into my second year. And this is for me to recall. So going into the second year, another shift that we went into which was looking differently at how we did learning acceleration. And within that budget year we identified that we were going to hire learning acceleration specialists that were going to work. We were going to look at the data, identify where our pockets of students are Black and native and Latino students were lower performing in what pockets of schools and identify our learning accelerations to be deployed within those schools to provide learning supports and interventions to our students so that they had not only access to grade level standards aligned instruction, but they also had access to a learning acceleration interventionist specialist to work specifically with them. That's four. The fifth thing that we did differently is that even in this past budget year we revisited our structure again to look at how it is that we can ensure that it is more student centered and that we were getting more of the learning support students to our students. So in the past budget year, just that this past spring, we have now in this year implemented ensuring that every school has an instructional coach. And with the work of the instructional coach, we can ensure that we are taking our priorities and our strategies and working closely with those instructional coaches so that they are in the schools working directly with students and teachers and building leaders to formulate what we call ilt, which is the instructional leadership team. Right. And so as a team, similar to what you hear that is happening at C sitting, we wanted to take that type of practice where the ILT is coming together with the building leader, the instructional coach and all of the supports provided and having conversations about instruction to ensure that that's happening. We've deployed a vehicle that is what we are calling like the the staff development calendar. There is a calendar of meetings that we are supporting schools in having and those meetings include teaching and learning focus meetings, it includes climate and culture focus meetings, it includes other meetings that are led by the principal leader. So these are a series of steps of things that we have done differently. Does the data points specifically to say we are seeing the results in these student groups? No, it's not happening yet. But I believe firmly in our practices and that if we hold steady and know and acknowledge that this is if we are in our third year, it has been two years of implementation for some of those initiatives and for others it is only one year of implementation. And while we have had the board goals for a little over a year now, I want to say that what I understand about moving schools, about moving data in my experience, about we have to first build capacity and shift practice. And while we see some early indicators that we may be moving in the right direction, it still will take a little time and we hope that we will get there because we have shifted our practices and have done a series of things a little differently. I'm glad to hear you say that. Yeah. And just some follow up questions. So like Implementing a lot of these programs, which is great, they all sound amazing. But then it goes up the question, like, what is the plan to figure out whether they're effective or not? Like, how do we know what we know? Again, my basic question, right? Like where's the follow up and when do we get to know when these programs are actually effective or not? I'm so glad that you asked that question because we do have a plan for implementation and progress monitoring. And I'm going to turn it over to Dr. Kimberly Armstrong, who is our chief academic officer and who's going to lick. Who's going to lay out exactly what the plan has been, what we're currently doing, and how we're going to continue to move it forward. Yeah, absolutely. Thank you for that, Dr. Proctor. Good evening, Board. Just to answer that quickly. So we have a team and many of the individuals that are sitting behind us are part of a larger team that comes together to talk about how we lift this, this work into our schools. You know, I so appreciate Chair Holland's words about being powerful beyond measure. We believe that and we also know that really to uplift that we're, we're in the people business. I appreciate Principal Berry talking about not changing people, but I do believe that we can change the choices that they make every day to move learning in our buildings and across our sites. So for our three instructional priorities, we are designing. This implementation plan was actually designed, but we're continuing to come together and talk about it. We have instructional walks where we'll be out visiting three times this year, collecting data on what we're seeing and what's being experienced so that we can then go back and change some of the choices or even maybe extend some of the opportunities that we've had for educators. And along with that, as Dr. Proctor mentioned, our site based instructional coaches, you know, they've been involved in learning weekly with us and then pretty soon that's going to change to every other week model. And the team has done a really good job of really leaning into that model and making sure our coaches are all trained so that when they're out in the sites they are able to support learning. You know, I really like to think of it as coordinated care. You know, we have a chance to benefit from many systems that coordinate care for individuals. And I often, when I talk about it, I speak as if it like a, like a clinic or a hospital, right, where there's some diagnosing and then there's a whole bunch of people that come together to coordinate care to make sure that whether it's wellness intervention prevention or just extension. And that's one of the ways in which we've been talking about the work. And I think Dr. Franco can share more specifics on how senior directors of schools and principals are leaning in to really ensure that the work is moving. Yeah, no, I appreciate that. Thank you, Dr. Armstrong. And I just want to call out, we do have senior directors of schools behind us. We also have the senior directors within OTL and OSSS and so definitely want to call attention their work. Again, back to your question, Director Wong, around. How do we know there are multitude of avenues and checkpoints. I think if you listened and I know you did, but there are a few things that I heard very specifically that came out of Principal Berry's presentation. She talked about things along the lines of curriculum. She talked about the instructional framework which Dr. Proctor mentioned. She talked about PLC, she talked about leadership teams and ILTS. She also talked about this notion of collective efficacy. Right. And then she also mentioned time. So those are all things that are consistent pieces, right. That as we think about leadership development and teacher professional learning, those are huge pieces consistently that we've applied across the board. I also want to talk a little bit about the school continuous improvement plan. You know, I'm coming from Beaverton. It's the most robust thing I've, I've seen in my 24 years of experience. When you're talking about metrics and measures, when you're talking about theories of actions and goals and progress monitoring, it is very distinct. And our senior directors of schools, they're, they're not just planning plans on a wall. What we do with them is that schools submit and then our senior directors provide very distinct feedback on do those school improvement plans reflect our instructional priorities and our board goals? And we also engage in quarterly reviews where senior directors sit down with the ilt, the instructional coach and the principal to note progress. And again, and that happens every quarter. Dr. Adams mentioned, we also do, three times a year we do school improvement plan showcases and mid year reviews where they're publicly talking about not only their goals but their strategies. And then what does the data look like and then what adaptations or adjustments do you have to make? I'd also say too like I don't want to underscore. Our senior directors of schools meet with our program principals on a weekly basis. It's a very tiered approach. And we are, we have, we've, we've instituted a very consistent template this year where our conversations are immensely focused around our school Improvement priorities and walking classrooms. I'd also say too that we have a standard in regards to the number of classroom visits that we expect teachers to have and every single year, and that's three to five with feedback in terms of giving feedback via an informal observation. And that is distinct using a common tool. So when you're talking about how do we know there's a multitude of things overarchingly that we are employing across the board look like Director Scott had his hand raised. Thanks. Yeah, I just want to actually pick up. I appreciate your question, Director Wong, and those answers I really appreciate and I'm wondering maybe just for me, take it to a little bit of a higher level around implementation timeline and research and everything you just said makes a lot of sense and there's a tremendous amount going on. I'm sort of curious, like all these interventions, all the things we're doing have academic basis, right? They all have, they're all evidence based. There's something that tells us it's supposed to work. What does the research tell us in terms of the timeline? And I think the reason I'm asking is, you know, when I think about, you know, Dr. Proctor, you mentioned the board goals are a year old. You know, they were revised a year ago, so we, we disaggregated them more. But we did adopt these board goals over four years ago that were focused very much on these same things. And you know, I'm, I've been the one willing to say like, look, the pandemic was a massive disruption and we cannot discount like what, what happened just to keep the schools functioning during that time. Now we're a couple years beyond that and I think it's getting back to the questions you're going to keep hearing from board members is when do we know that it's time to pivot and when do we know it's time to sort of stay the course? And I'm wondering, like, I've asked this question to the council of Great City Schools and not really gotten sufficient answers or, you know, clear answers. Are there large urban districts that have made the type of progress that we're trying to make? When I look at our fifth grade, you know, I could, I could. When I'm looking at our board goals, I can look at our 5th grade goals, 5th grade math, and say, okay, we didn't achieve our board goals, but almost all of our groups are moving in the right direction. So that says something. But when I look at our third grade reading, not only do we not meet the board goals, but with the exception of our Latinx students, they're all going in the wrong direction. And so I just. What do you, from your perspective, leading these teams, doing these interventions, putting all these things in place, when do you know that it's like, we gotta keep powering ahead, it's gonna take another 1, 2, 3 years to see the type of progress we're making? Or you know what? I think it might be time for a pivot. It might be time for a change. It might be time to try something different. Thank you for that question. And I'll lean on everyone to kind of jump in, but I'll start with my response in this way, Director Scott, is that, yes, absolutely, the pandemic was a huge interruption. And what we know from national trends and even in state trends, that students experienced a huge learning loss as a result of the pandemic, as a result of being out of school, as a result, result of being on virtual or online learning for a period of time. And during that time, I believe the district did some work in setting some new priorities through a strategic plan. And so by the time I arrived, you know, we were able to come back to face to face. School was that same first year of what I would call that reset. Right. And so while we were able to employ our social emotional learning, ensuring that we were meeting the mental health of our students by increasing our investments in those areas, we also took on the task of getting back to academics and instruction. However, there was a learning curve with the. When you considered student loss and the learning curve of adults in a new practice, I would say firmly that based on the practices that we put in place, that is proven and grounded in what we know, according to the research, as far as what students need in terms of high quality instructional material, materials and a deep, deeply engaging instruction, and really having access to high quality text, which was not a practice, was not standard across the district prior that, we are still in a position where we can see the growth that we are looking for. So while I understand maybe say, board goals were developed four years ago in these areas, we did have that almost two year, year and a half interruption and then had to do a reset and come back. And with coming back, we continued to plow forward in increasing our practices and making some really bold moves in the districts to do some things differently than how they were done pre pandemic. Are we seeing across the country or across the state, other districts, other large districts, even districts larger than ourselves, facing the same challenges? Absolutely. Because after we came back from the pandemic, we had staffing shortages. We had some of the same issues that were happening across the country. Country. However, we're still able to see in our initial results some arrows that are pointing to say that if we hold steady in this approach with these particular strategies, the indicators will show that we are moving in the right direction and we will get to those results, results that we're hoping for. I really appreciate that your response. And Director Scott, your question about, you know, which I've asked too, I think even I asked it the first time in 2019, was when would we expect that curve to look like a parabola? You know, maybe it's plateaued or flat for a while, but then it like immediately goes up. And I know it's hard to give an answer, but I would be really interested in knowing, I guess, a little to, to further your question, at what point do we abort an issue and try something else? Like is there a point at which, is there a point at which out in the future we decide that this is not working and is that being evaluated regularly? I would say that because these practices are new and in place just over a year and what we know about research when it comes to, to leadership and implementing change that it takes three to five years to see, and it's not an acceptable answer. I'm just saying what we know to be true, we won't see the change in one year. And if we abort now and try to do something else, we will delay the results that we want to see. One thing that is true, when you are implementing a new practice, you could almost expect the implementation dip. What I mean by that is if it's me trying on something that I had not done before, as we are asking some of our professionals to do, they're not going to get it right. Perfect to fidelity the first time around. For every measure of accountability, we want to make sure that we're providing the support, the training, the development and the support with the instructional coaching to support them in getting to a perfected and most improved and desired instructional practice or practice. And then we will start to see the bend in the data. And I just want to add. I'm sorry. Oh, yeah, no, I'm sorry. I just want to add that we talk about pre pandemic data getting back to where we were before the pandemic. Yet the students that we're referencing are post pandemic with all of the impacts that came with it. And so when we think of our third graders who were testing last year, I mean, they had at that Point what been in two years that were more typical than they were in the first two years with a disruption in late kindergarten and then first year with the hybrid and all of that. And so I just, I also want to hold on to that. Like everything we know about research definitely suggests that there's implementation dips and that we need to stay with something for a while. But I also don't want to dismiss the fact that we have kiddos with post pandemic impacts. So I just want. Oh, sorry. So I just want. We keep talking about this educational dip. So right now with our averages for our kids not meeting proficiency, you know, we have 83% of our black kids not meeting proficiency. We have 82.6 of our native kids not meeting proficiency. We have 68% of our Latino kids not meeting proficiency. How much more DIP are we anticipating? So in the data, what we are saying is that we will start to see a shift in the data. Kind of like what Dr. Adams indicated is that you will see a broader shift amongst a broader group and then you would be able to go back in and ensure that we are shoring up our supports for all of our groups. But we have to see initially what the data tells us and then go back and adjust our practice accordingly. And this is a huge moment of reflection. Right. In my opinion, we're clearly onto something in math. Last year where everybody else dipped, we stayed steady, had some small gains, like, you know, not a whole lot. This year we had bigger gains than last year in ela, some small gains. But we're understanding. This is the time for us to understand from our teachers what is it about the ELA curriculum that might with which they might be struggling more than the mathematics curriculum? Because that's one of the questions I have as I looked at the data. And we are in year two of math, right? We're in year one. These data reflect year one of ela. And so is that where we saw the dip? I'm hoping that is where we saw the dip and we don't see it moving forward. Well, I'm glad you're asking this one up. Oh, just ask one more. So when you talked about the math and reading data, do we see a correlation between math and reading data or averages that tells us anything? It's a great question. So research would hold that there's a modest correlation between reading and math achievement, but not a big one or a strong one. We know, and I think we've all experienced through our own education and our kids education. If you're a parent that kids have relative strengths and weaknesses. And just because you're, you know, great with your reading material doesn't always mean you're great with your math material. So while we did not run correlations on these particular data, while I'm a proponent of, you know, to unpack the types of mathematic problems that kids are presented today, you have to have some strong reading skills. We don't see overall this high correlation at all times because individual students are different. And then I just want to add, and I appreciate the words of Dr. Adams and I just have to add that the work that we're doing with early literacy is really significant and outstanding. And I know that the score necessarily representative of that just yet. But, you know, there's a reason why the state has invested the funds that they have on early learning across Oregon. There's a reason why we're getting multimillion dollars to continue to improve in that area. Right. It's not just a Portland issue or an Oregon issue. It's a nationwide issue. And the curriculum and the way that those efforts have been coordinated, I think is above what's happening on the west coast in general. And I've been in a couple of states. And if. And if there are any questions about literacy specifically, we do have our senior Director of Pre K5 who can speak to the work that we're doing. But like I. And just some highlights, you know, we have teachers who have participated in the letters training at high numbers. Right. That's adding that reading endorsement so that they're teaching reading the way that reading should be taught, according to brain research. So like, I and I celebrate math, and I just. I don't want to leave ELA out because this year the numbers weren't as significant as they were. There really is some amazing things happening, and I have some leaders here that can speak to that if there's a question. And again, ela, one year of implementation, implementation with our newly adopted core curriculum, math. Two years. Two full years of implementation with our K5 math adopted curriculum. One year of implementation, full implementation with our 6 12. We're at the beginning of a second year of implementation for much of it. And I think for the significant investments that that we have made in these approaches, that it is important for us to continue in these approaches because we have not yet turned to see the results that we're looking for. Yeah. As a teacher, retired teacher, I really appreciate that. It always seemed like just when you were starting to get a hold of something, they changed. Absolutely. And we just you need to stick with it. So I really appreciate that. And I also have a question. How are we doing with getting enough support like the psychologist, the counselor, the halftime interventionists into all schools? I mean, obviously we need it. We're going to make room for Jay Buno who is our chief of student support services and he'll be able to give very specific response to that. And I am not a doctor, just Jay. Good evening. So we have made a pretty significant impact investment in the last few years through our student investment dollars, our student investment account, SIA monies in counselors, comprehensive schools, psychologists and social workers. And in this last year we also went out and earned a federal grant which allowed us to significantly increase the amount of comprehensive school psychologists that we have in our system and are on track to in the next two years have a comprehensive school psychologist each one of our title schools in order to support, in reference to what you heard Principal Berry talk about each one of our schools. In addition to that, we are working on supporting and creating healing school communities through community schools which will provide social worker and social worker FTEs to help coordinate care for all of our students in need at each one of our title schools also, which then allows us to use our other resources to support non title schools with mental health supports, coordination of care and wellness. So mainly in the title schools. No, we've, we, those are, we, we have reached out and accepted experienced success in gaining additional resources through grants and, and also through the state in support of our title schools which enables us to spread our supports more across all schools. And I want to underscore something Principal Berry said. It wasn't just having people, it was the right people with the right mindsets. Okay, yeah, so I guess the. You're going to hate me now. I'm sorry, but you know, I have so much respect for the work you do and there's a lot of things I really love seeing like the early, the literacy changes and things like that. I do have a disagreement with about the DIP though because having been involved in multiple curriculum changes and also implementing leading implementation, I disagree because I feel like when the supports are right, new curriculum that is actually better usually leads to a surge of performance. I know this because Dr. Franco, thank you for bringing up Beaverton because I remember implementing you working with Beaverton to implement new curriculum and then all the teachers in PPS were like why don't we get the same supports Beaverton did? I'm sorry, but the whole point is I don't mean to pit one district together. I'm very sorry. We'll have to point out that we scored better than Beaverton. They beat me to the punch. But that's just because our kids are awesome. But anyways, sorry Beaverton, what was I going to say? You totally, I'm just worried like, you know, going back to what Director Scott was pointing out, when do we know when we change course? And one of the things that you know, I'm also trying to give feedback because having been in the district for, for over a decade and teaching for a lot longer and seeing other districts been in other districts too, one of the things that we do see is that like we need to do things differently because we're not seeing the results. But one of the things that we don't see differently is the methods. And what I mean by that is when there's a problem, let's throw new sauces on. The pasta is horrible. So let's try marinara. Okay? That marinara is a whole world. Let's throw, you know, let's throw some Alfredo on it. Alfredo. And it's still awful. And what we forget is that we need to go, you know, the change is not throwing a new sauce on it. I'm sorry, I don't mean to diminish any because I know your work is, you know, how high, you know how much respect I have for your work. So I don't need to keep saying that over and over again. But I guess my point is that the, you know, like even just listening to the presentation, sitting, it goes back to basics, right? Which is basically, you know, just like how we treat our students, all students want to learn. If they're not learning, it's because something's in their way. Right? All the teachers want to perform. If they're not performing better, it's because something's in their way and it's a different mentality. And the fact that like I love the presentation by sitting because it was not a top down method, it was a bottom up, right? It was, we hear from our teachers what was working, what was not. We have these weekly collaboration time, you know, we have something built into the system for them to take it over and improve the way they need it. Because you know, the honest truth is like every school, I mean yes, we're Portland, but the needs of sitting were different than the needs of Lewis. Right. And they need different things. And so a top down approach. Yes, there are some things that we do need a top down approach. You know, like, and you know, I'm not speaking, you all know this. I'M kind of talking, hopefully try to steer my whole goal. But anyways, you know, just one of the common themes I keep hearing over and over again is sometimes, and this is before your time, so I'm not, it's not criticizing you is that sometimes it's just like it feels like the district is leading us instead of they're supporting us. Right. And I keep hearing over and over again from a lot of principals, teachers, like, you know, it feels like we're serving the district instead of the district is serving us. I quote that from, from a friend of mine. I'm very sorry if you're watching. And one of the things is like, you know, every need of every community is different. And so, you know, again, like I keep saying, like back to basics if we're not, if we keep throwing new sauces on it and it's not working. You know, again, we got to figure out like, as a teacher who has been in this district for many, many years, I've seen this all before and every teacher will say the same thing. We've seen this all before and we'll just wait it out. Right? So at what point do we say, hey, maybe this is not worth waiting out, maybe this is sometime we need to pivot and be like teachers what you know, or students, they know just as much. What do you need? Right. It's a, you know, I just, I'm worried that there are some, you know, like, I agree that a lot of the programs that you're implementing, 100% support. But then there's needs to be, I think the other piece where it's just we gotta, we gotta meet them where they're at. So where's that conversation? I appreciate that. I think one of the things that went unsaid in our approach to professional learning is we have made shifts. The first year with math, we didn't really provide a whole lot of pd. The second year we provide centralized PD and heard overwhelming feedback from educators and principals that that PD needed to be site based. And so this year that's what we're exactly doing. So we're trying to go back to basics. We're trying to make sure that the embedded instructional coach who's part of the school community is working with his, her, their principal to create the professional learning with our support that will best meet the needs of their teachers and their students. That's just one example. And I do want to go back to the presentation from Satan. They have a school community as you've described, that have taken on a practice to Ensure that they reflect on what their belief systems are around, what students are able to do. They ensure that they're able to put the systems in place and provide opportunities. And that's why they're able to see the results. But I do also want to point out that Sitton made it very clear that they are adopting the curriculum they're implementing, they are working with the instructional framework and they are using the resources and materials as prescribed through the work and through the shift that we have made. And so when we look at, you know, how it is that we are doing things differently to improve practices, I think it takes a balanced approach. Sir, with all due respect. And it does take us coming together with a body of knowledge and research of how we can make some shifts in our practice so that we can see the results that we want and then support schools at the ground level for effective implementation, for community building and for teacher input and student input and voice into how they will have it make sense for their school community. Am I going to get a chance at some point? Thank you. Sorry, I was trying to add a question around the dip, but before I ask the question about the dip, I do want to just start by saying I really appreciated and was inspired by the Sitton story. So thank you for coming and sharing it. Those students in the far northern corner of the district. District are very lucky, it sounds like. And it seems like, you know, that's what we want for, for all of our students, that intentional care that they're getting. So thank you for. And I know there's lots of other principals and teachers and staff doing really hard work in every corner of the district as, as well. But I did, I want to go back to the dip because so I've been around so long, it's hard for me to process that it's just a dip because when I look at the data and I'm looking at the it's like implementation dip. I'm looking at the memo that Dr. Adams, you sent us that has the third grade disaggregated data. And, and there's a, unless I'm reading it wrong, but you can tell me on page 16 there's a 5.4% like decrease for Asian students, a 1.5 for Black students increase for Latinx, a 1.7 decrease for multiracial, 11 point percent decrease for Native American and 4% decrease reciprocal Islanders and a 1.3 increase for white students. And then I look at the by school data and we have 28 of the elementary schools, the third grade ELA achievement having increases and 34 having decreases. It seems to me that if we were having an implementation dip, it would be across the district and across racial lines. So I'm curious about that. Or is it that some schools have implemented it and others haven't, in which. That's a different issue. But to have, as I. There's a lot in zone six that have dips, and I don't think it's because they're not working hard, but we're not seeing across the board an implementation dip by school, I would rule, or by racial group. Yeah, I want to clarify what I said just so that it's not misunderstood, if that's okay. What I was trying to convey is that what research typically tells us is that when implementing a new practice, it is common to see an implementation dip. What we do know to be true here at PPS is that with our new implementations, that it has taken some time. We've only been implementing in one year. Year for some areas. And in that one year implementation, it's not going to be. It has not been. And it's not typical that it would be 100% implementation at 100% fidelity. There is a learning curve for our educators that we are providing the support, the professional development and the coaching so that they can get to full implementation. And so part of what I was trying to convey is because we have not seen in the one year in much of this that we have seen full implementation, that we need to stay steady in our practice so that for the investments that we have made for what we believe is possible and for the strategies that we have put, put in place in making significant shifts over the past two years, we need to continue forward so that we could get to that. To bridge that learning curve, if you will, so that we could have full implementation. Yeah. So if I could just add. Just. Can I go ahead to answer your question? Because I'm feeling left out. Fidelity of implementation of new curriculum. That's one factor. Presuming that there's 100% degree implementation in the use of the material. You know, you see the list of schools here that you're referring to. Director Brem Edwards and every one of their supervisors are sitting right there. We have, of course, have to have a more nuanced understanding of what's happening in each of these school communities. It's not just the material. It's what are the conditions, what are the practices? Has there been a stability of leadership at all levels of the organization, maintaining a consistency? To use the pasta analogy, we're not just throwing a bunch of spaghetti at the cabinet here. We've made very judicious choices about not just when and where we're implementing curriculums, but how we align the professional development and leadership training. We added to the recipe by deploying instructional coaches in our schools. That's going to up the ability and the capacity at the school level to have conversations around how practices are shifting or not. What are we noticing with the specific diverse students that we serve? It's helping the principal and many more of them now working single handedly necessarily to have that thought partner to design judicious, deliberate, purposeful agendas for their instructional leadership teams, for their department content meetings, for their grade level team meetings and other intervention teachers and special education team educators, you know, to talk about the specific students that they're serving. So yeah, what we're seeing, about half of those schools are showing some tremendous growth. And so how do we understand what's happening in those schools? Those are the conversations that our senior directors are having. This is why it's so important that our principals get regular opportunities to visit one another's schools. So that when they engage in those instructional rounds they're comparing notes about what those effective practices about what that change management looks like in the and we say it all the time in every single principal PD meeting so that we build the collective efficacy. Right that there's and understanding that they have agency to build our students own sense of self efficacy. So we've tried to be really deliberate about our choices. Just as dangerous as letting something go too quickly because we think it's not working. We have to make sure that it was implemented first and then make some choices about how to refine and fine tune it. And I don't think anybody would be against streamlining expectations or, or making sure that the day the instructional time that our students have is always high quality. So just a few additional thoughts about why we see these patterns. It isn't just a curricular response. It's all the rest. It's the data literacy, it's the use of the assessments, it's the way the teachers are engaging in asking themselves these questions. So like I say, when I look at both the third grade ELA data, whether it's school based or race based, the concern I have, and this is just having sat at this table for 10 years over two decades that I'm concerned without a deeper analysis that it's not just implementation, some of the other things. So like how often are principals rotating in our schools? Eight years. I don't think there's a lot of other schools like Sitton that would say they've had their principal for eight years and that allows a principal to develop relationships with staff, create, distribute leadership across staff. I mean a lot of things happen when a principal has been great for eight years. So yes, I acknowledge there's probably a lot of other things. But the thing that concerns me is that pps I'm going to just sort of pivot back to Chair Holland's comments. You know, what are we comparing it to? I don't, you know, two of my three kids, you know, left. All three of my kids left the state to either work or go to school. And they're not competing against, just against Beaverton. They're competing against kids all across the United States for jobs and how to, you know, getting into college for careers. So and they're competing all across the globe now because we have a global economy. So I want us to like reset ourselves as higher standards because I don't think anybody would point to Oregon's results as being what we think is what needs to happen. And one of the things PPS has consistently done is state. And this is, I'm going to just go back to my good friend Lorenzo Poe who I served with, who said when I talked about PPS being a great district and look at the outcomes, we're above the average. And him pointing out is like, yeah, that's the white kids. You know, what Lorenzo would say is that's mask asking like the performance of. Because PPS has traditionally kept middle class white families and middle class white students and we've had more money than at most other districts, those outcomes have mask. When we talk about averages have masks us not serving students of color very well or special ed students. And so when we say like we're above average or we're above the state, often it means our white students who are from middle class families who, you know, their parents went to college and have a lot of privilege are what's driving those outcomes. And when, you know, I'm concerned when I look at the just the disaggregated data, with the exception of the Latinx students, all of the other students of color are seeing a decrease and we have an increase which for white students, which just given the number of white students there are that masks what's happening with our other students. So I think we really need to dig, dig down is like it's the curriculum and a whole host of other things. And if we just are comparing ourselves to other districts and not like, you know, how are those other 34 schools? And I'm just focusing on third grade reading and we could go through the exercise for, you know, at the other grades is what do we need to be doing to, you know, move those other students along with the students who traditionally have done well in pps. And that's what I'm looking for in the data is, you know, whatever is the secret sauce that Sitton or other places that we have it consistently across the district. And we're getting consistent positive gains in a disaggregated way for our students. And I'm concerned that I don't see that in the data, but I still see white students moving forward, kind of coming out of the pandemic and sort of picking things up and giving the, leaving the impression that like we're actually on our way back when I'm seeing dips and the other group. So that, that was just my observation from looking at the data and I have a lot of other questions, but I really, that I've sent to Dr. Adams about looking at the special ed data and then our disaggregated data by school because I think we all aspire to be not just better than Beaverton, no offense, not just better than Beaverton, but really like all of our students being proficient. Because I look at when this school's meeting was success. One of the schools listed is Kellogg. But then when I go and look at where they are on the board goals, they actually are, they're below. When you look at the board goal measurement, they're below or they're decreasing. And so it just seems like we've got a lot of more just digging into the, the data to what, what is working. Because yes, it's been around a long time, so I've, I've seen every flavor. I mean we had guaranteed viable curriculum. We don't disagree with that. Don't. Yeah. And I think that's. Oh, sorry Doctor. No, we, we, we don't disagree with that. Yeah, absolutely. In the aggregate, we're doing well in the disaggregate. We're not. I guess the thing is we have, we agree. Agreeing with it or not. What are we doing about it? I think Dr. Parker outlined what we were doing. I mean this is. Well, and I think I hear, I hear all the explanations of we're not doing this or you're doing this, we're trying to do that. I get the explanations. I understand all the stuff that we're doing. I'm just, I haven't seen since I've been here, haven't seen the results of that. I'm just looking just at the data, I would say. Yet. Yeah, yet. So I guess that's the frustration is that as we look at the data, not what we're doing, not what initiatives we have, not what strategic plans we have, not what, when we look at the data, it doesn't match up. Sure. Yeah. And we, and we agree with that. And I would say that we're on the same page in terms of agreement. I would say that we are immensely laser focused on the board goals on the achievement of our different groups of students. Like that is it. We know that that is absolutely the work. But we're very confident in terms of the sustainable practices that are, that we are developing today, that we are working through. But we feel immensely confident that. And yes, you know, we feel like we are. The flywheel is moving and you could see some of those pieces overarchingly. And I don't want to underscore this piece around, you know, the foundation was set, I think, with the strategic plan, the building of the graduate portrait. We had this piece right in the middle of the pandemic, which was immensely discombobulating. We are level setting again. If you read all the research around grade level standards aligned about high quality instrument instructional materials around tier one instruction and level setting from that vantage point, those are key pieces in regards to research. And if you read the research, it's. I mean, I was a building principal for a long time. I felt like I didn't have my building truly until year five, because those are pieces and structures and systems that we're working to put in place. And that is happening. That absolutely is happening. So I guess my other frustration is that while we're getting our stuff together, together as adults, whether it's a principal or whatever, where do I leave our kids? Absolutely right. Where do that leave our kids? Right. Our kids are the ones who are having to suffer while we figure it out. Our kids are the ones who are, you know, when we look at the data or whatever, going through the grades while we're figuring it out. If you got a third grade kid and you just said it took you five years, well, now that kid is in what, eighth grade? What happens in that meantime? What happens to that kid? When do they get to a point to where we figure out where they're at and catch up? So that way when we get to graduation, we don't have parents coming to us talking about our kids can barely read. I want to say, you're absolutely correct. And what I want to say also, as I, you know, kind of get this point out in a very measured way, is that to be reminded that at the point that coming into this work, PPS, in over 10 years in some content areas, in over 15 years in other content areas, had not adopted any standards aligned curriculum. We did not have a common practice in that area. There was not a common focus in that area. And yet we are just now getting to that work. Work. So while pps, as a system that is a part of a Portland system, have not served our black, brown, Hispanic, native children for decades, we are now in a position where we have shifted the practice to try something that had not been done before. In 10 years, in 15 years when I, in coming aboard, there was not a streamlined focus on how to provide supports and professional learning for our educators. We now have a streamlined focus just in the past two years of how to do that work and how to make the investments in our teachers, in our schools to support them in their practice. That did not happen in decades. So as we continue this conversation, Pastor pray for me, as we continue this conversation, I want to be clear that this did not start just a year ago or two years ago. You're right. There has been a disservice and we have dramatically shifted just in two years some of those problems practices. And so we need. If you say what's different, that is what's different in streamlining our focus, that is what's different in ensuring that we have grade level standards aligned curriculum, high quality instructional materials that is paired with professional learning for our teachers, that is what's different. When we set an instructional framework with four tiers that talks about grade level standards aligned, culturally affirming, data driven and deeply engaging, this is what we are training our teachers towards. That is what's different. It had not happened in 10 years, 15 years. And I could attest with this team, with our superintendent, that this has been our focus and this has been core to the work that I and everyone behind us have been doing. But that is what's different. And I'm encouraged by that. And no, we're not satisfied with the data. We're not. But I know that we're on a course that if we hold free firm, we could get there. I do have something to say, but I want to let Director Silverstein go first. Hi. First of all, I just want to say thank you so much for all of the hard work you put into all of this. It's very clear. And I just wanted to acknowledge that. And then I'm trying to like, figure out how to phrase this, but I guess my question kind of becomes, like, how standardized is it? And obviously this is something that we can continue to improve. But I just know from my experiences, and this is more obviously within high school, there was a lot of frustration, I think, with the way that the curriculum was adopted. And I would say that among classes and teachers that just from what I hear from my peers and what I've seen, there isn't a lot of standardization. And I don't always know how much, like, teachers are following these new standards and like using the new curriculum. And I guess that just. Sorry, one second. Sorry. I am in the middle of my school building, so CART just passed me. But what was I saying? Okay. I guess it just makes me wonder a little bit too about like how we continue to engage with stakeholders about this and how maybe we can continue to speak with the students and of course teachers, which it sounds like you all are doing, about how we can be more successful with this work. Yeah. Yeah. So thank you. I appreciate the question. So we. There's a couple things that we're excited about. We started our first FACE group Family Advisory Council on Education, who met for the first time last week and will come together every other month to talk about instructional priorities. And across the district and not just there, we have a robust curriculum adoption framework that lists out all of the steps that the committee takes to make sure that they're engaging stakeholders. So from, you know, communicating out the opportunities to come and review curriculum, the opportunity to field test, we collect data from not only teachers, but students as well. And some of their narratives are what then leads us to the next step before we even get to presenting the curriculum for adoption before the board, we have community involved. And if we don't have a significant number of stakeholders involved in reviewing, then that means we need to go back to the drawing board. That's one of the reasons why we paused on the social studies adoption is because we didn't have robust community and family engagement. So that's one of the ways. Really quick. Thank you. Director Silva. I think you pointed out kind of one of my frustrations I also seen as well is just I guess where I was trying to highlight is one of the problems is that is not the programs you're implementing. I think they're great. Now again, I want to second what Dr. Proctor also said. I think it is important that we stay with these programs, especially with the amount of effort and got a taste of it and it is really exciting stuff. But I also want to bring attention to the other side, where we have schools and teachers who are on the verge or burning out and we're trying to add something more to their plate at some point. I think that needs to be a little looked at in order to make it if you want to be successful. If I want someone to learn something new, they have to have the supports. They have to have the time to talk. And Dr. Armstrong, I would love to see that framework that you're talking about. On the other hand, I also want to, being a good scientist, in your defense, I also want to point out the other point, the other side as well. One of the issues I have with this data is that we only look at third and fifth grade, and 2022's third graders are today's fourth graders. And we know that the pandemic hit them at different times. Right. So that means that when they went online, maybe it hurt their reading more missing out on first grade than missing out on kindergarten. Kindergarten. So there's a potential that the reason we're seeing a dip is because these third graders had a bigger hit in their reading development because of the timing of the pandemic. Right. And so I guess that kind of leads to. My question is that is there any way we can know how they're doing in fourth grade? Right. To see, obviously they're getting smarter. So that. That's very difficult to measure. So that. I think that's one. One of the things I do want to also point out is that I think we do need to stay the course in terms of the programs that you're implementing in order to find out whether this is working or not. Just because, unfortunately, you had to deal with the pandemic stuff. So I guess just one more thing really quick. It's just like, what is. I guess my question is, what is your ask? When do you think we will know that these are working? Like, for sure. Well, as. That's a great question. Those are great questions, Director Wong, and appreciate your comments about the experiences of our current third or last year's third graders across the pandemic. One of the things we're working on, as Dr. Armstrong and Dr. Proctor mentioned, is we're monitoring and evaluating what we're doing as we're doing it. We're going to be supporting our instructional coaches and principals by understanding how their teaching and learning and climate and culture. Tuesdays are going. We will be doing learning walks across schools at certain points of the year. That data will be used to Inform our monitoring. But OTL staff and senior directors of school are always in schools, right. And they'll always be collecting. So we'll also have some formative data along the way. So we hope to understand the extent to which things are working. Because the first thing we need to expect before we can see the change, the ultimate changes in student achievement is we need to see change in the use of the change in the practices. Are teachers using the materials? Are they able to bring them to life? Do they need more or additional professional coaching or support in order to do that? How are we building a. Dr. Franco always reminds us collective efficacy and what Principal Berry this is to Principal Martinez said tonight around our collective understanding of what we can do as a team. And so we are looking at things. I don't want there to be any misunderstanding that we wait until we have these data every year and then say, oh, that didn't work. We're constantly in schools talking to principals, inviting teacher feedback in order to understand what's working, how it's working, and the extent to which we need to offer more support. I just want to do a follow up to that statement, Dr. Adams. So you mentioned that, you know, we're doing constant observations and collecting that data. So I guess my to my question is, so from what you guys told us last year, as far as the bar goes and where you figure we can get to this year, we clearly didn't make that. Where were the. After reevaluating all the data and all the observations you guys did through this year, why do you think we didn't reach those? That's a really great question. I think there are a multitude of factors that could be at play here. I think one, proud of a board that set robust and ambitious goals. None of us had any idea of what performance increases we could expect after a pandemic. We set performance increases based on what we know of student learning. And perhaps we're at a moment in time where that's not the rate we're going to reach right away. You know, we're not ready to admit defeat. We still want to hold those goals up. It's why we have and we know we need to be aligned as a school system, which is why we have each of our principals align their school improvement plan to the board goals because that those are the goals and they're looking at their schools in the plans. I know that I got a chance to look at those principals and school teams aligned even their increases to our increases to the board's increases. Right. And so we know that level of alignment is important, but I think there are a lot of factors that could be at play, and that's what we're trying to understand. What we're doing now this year that will be different with our observations. Is the entire team behind you? And people who aren't even in this room will be using a common tool to collect what they're seeing in the data so that we have a centralized way to collect that information. And so that'll be one of the ways that I think we'll have more robust, ongoing information about what's going on in schools, because we'll have a common tool. It's not that we didn't have a common language, but it's also nice, you know, for me to actually have my fingers in the data. And in a way that's beyond conversations, because I do sit with Dr. Franco and his team most Mondays, so I can hear and understand the pulse of what's going on in the schools. I just want to. I just want to be clear that the board didn't set those goals. We said, okay to the goals, but when we asked the number, our question was, what can we do? What is reasonable? What is acceptable? And the superintendent said, this percentage is what we can do. Our question was, what model should we be using? Should it be the OSAs data? Should it be the maps data data, or whatever the case might be? And then the superintendent selected the model from which we would. We would base everything off of. So I just want to be clear that we're not coming back to say, you set this goal. We accepted the goal. We accepted the. The matrix by which we were. The measurement was going to be done, and then that's what was adopted. But the goal was set by the superintendent. The matrix that was going to be used was set by the superintendent. And what we said was, if this is what you're. If this is what we can do. Because the question was not can we do 6% or 7? We said, what can we do? What do you feel is fair? What do you feel is appropriate? Given the environment that we're in, given the climate that we're in and where everybody is at, what do you feel is the most acceptable thing to do? Because what we didn't want to do is put ourselves in a position where we come back and say, well, if it was me, I would have said 2% instead of 3% or 5%. If it was me, I would have chose the maps data or the OSAS data. But I was just going off of what you guys told me you wanted to do. So I just want to be very, very clear on that piece. I agree with everything that you said. It was a lofty goal. I agree with all of that. I believe that we didn't get what we said and we got to figure out how to reevaluate and reassess and pivot and do whatever. The only point of clarity I want to make sure that I'm very keen on is where that information came from. That's it. Curious how all the teachers are accepting the instructional coaches. Is that kind of across the board accepted or is there some pushback? The coaches have just been in place since teachers return in August. Oh yes, we don't have, at least I'm not aware of. We do have some data. Oh, come on. Well, no, we, we have data for the professional learning events that we've put on for our site based instructional coaches and our teachers. And in all instances, our Data was above 90% in terms of experience, relevance and just, you know, I could probably list all of the matrix. Christina Howard would probably do a better job as she's been leading that work. But we're at 90% in all of our learning engagements with site based instructional coaches, with principals and with teachers when involved in work around our instructional priorities. So that's all pretty new with the leadership teams and instructional coach and the leadership teams in the school. Oh, absolutely. And it's our biggest, I feel like it's one of our, our biggest things to not only be proud of, but to move. This year we put site based instructional coaches in all of our schools and we were listening to what our building administrators were saying is that we want to be able to build our learning arcs, we want to be responsive to our learning community. And we know that if we do this, we'll have higher number, numbers of teachers engaged in not only learning, but the use of the curriculum. And so everything that we've done this year has been about building that structure that we launched just a month ago and the work that will play out and what we talk about as a team almost every other week is now how do we support that, how do we monitor it and how do we provide the support when things go wrong? Because we know, right, we're not perfect people. And so we want to be able to respond and support principals when things happen. That's sort of what Director Wong was talking about, I think. And then just while I'm just talking, I just have to say, because I know we've spent some time on data about our black students. And I know that the purpose of this was A on OSAs. And there are other data points that I hope in the future the board can hear and be in celebration with the Portland community about. No. There's a team of people that are responsible for multiple pathways to graduation and the work that happens in those schools to catch our students. While we say failure is not an option, we know some of our kids struggle. So at the same time, we also have to say that we don't give up on students. So when I think of the 650 black students involved in CTE across nine through 12, and seeing that out of all of those students, 91% is the graduation rate and their average daily attendance is 80%. Now, you need to know, of course, 100% is what we go for, but 80% average daily attendance is huge. We have those 650, 50 students completing enrollments in courses while there's 1,400 different enrollments. And so we have these CTE completers. There are black students. When we want to talk about where our group is outperforming other students, we can spend a whole hour or two just talking about CTE and college and career readiness and multiple pathways to graduation and a host of other programs. And so while I appreciate the time on osas, there are other measures that we're using where our black kids are excelling. And I just didn't want the night to end without dropping some positive numbers that we can all celebrate. I'm actually glad you said that because that's actually one of my questions that I sent in as well. And I've been asked this question. I've asked Superintendent, I've asked Pat what other variables that we can include to evaluate the performance of our kids. I know there's more than just one, and we shouldn't be just always looking at. But for me, this is the only thing I get right. This is the only thing I get. So this is the only thing I can go by. Right. And so. But I've been asking for that. What other things can we measure our students on besides just this? And I'm glad you said that. And I'm hoping that we can start looking at those other ways to look at how do we assess our kids once again, only reason why is because this is the only stuff we get. And so I think direct Student director Frankie Silverstein had a question. I seen your hand up, but then I don't know if you had, if it was from the old question or not. Oh, Director Depass oh, you know, we're gonna do two more questions. We're gonna do. I was just. Director. Director. The original board goals had the eight. It was designed to have the eighth grade goal be something other than just test scores, to measure some of the other things that we know our students are brilliant at. And that was something that we say in 2019. I was just looking at the resolution that was put into the eighth grade goal, and the temporary measurement that was dropped in is the one we have now. But they originally was designed to capture more than just the OSAS data maps data. So it would be great to get back to that developmental continuum, which there has been a lot of work to date on towards the graduate portrait. So what does that look like for the early grades, early learners, middle grade students, and secondary students? So that would be. That's a way that our community defines success, a vision for student success. So it'd be great to talk about the work that's been in progress there and how we're trying to orient our redesign along those attributes that we have for our students. Director DePass, you had a question. Thank you for hearing me out. Yeah, I think we. This has been a really great discussion, and I think we need to look at both, like, how can we hold all of us accountable and get the results that we expect? I just wanted to shout out Director Brum Edwards and your comment about the longevity of the leadership at. AT schools and the building principle and how important that can be in. In Siton's example. And we. We know we have a lot of schools that don't have that, but I want, again, like, focus this, focus us on the both end. How can we. Like, I'm completely frustrated with the data also, just so you know, everyone, and also wanting to believe, because I'm not an educational expert, I'm having to place 100% of my trust in what I'm hearing and the hope that I hear and, you know, the hope for, like, alternative measures of success, like how do we measure those kids that are athletically, you know, athletic or artistic or creative, and they're getting success that way and balancing that with the need to. The basics of, you know, in third grade, you need to be reading, you know, at A level and 5th grade math as markers of, you know, future success. So I just. I want to appreciate everyone for your comments and, you know, on the senior leadership team, and I'm hopeful still. And I also want to figure out how we as a board can and hold ourselves accountable for getting out of the way for holding the district accountable and also supporting the district and getting out of our own way, focusing on student outcomes 100% and not on some of the other things that we spend our time doing. And if that requires a time study, I know we've done this in the past or a board self evaluation and look at actually do a time study. How do we spend our time in a week and evaluate that against, you know, what our board goals are. And anyway, thank you. That's all. Thank you, Chair DePass. I just have one last question and then question and then we adjourn. So I was looking at this is looking at the sitting data, the Whitman data and the regular data. So when I was looking at for black kids there was no data. And so I'm just curious how do we get to 7.5 and 13.2? But I didn't see any data on the page. Sure. Appreciate the question. The state data downloads don't provide data for a grade level when fewer than 10 students test. And so at Siton, for example, there were 16 African American students students tested across the tested grades three through five and there were not 10 students in any particular grade level at once. Thanks. Not here. Closing thoughts. Go ahead. Thank you. I just want to make sure that I've gotten to know a lot of school districts over the years. I think I know the majority of the superintendents pretty well that lead the larger urban districts here in America. And the question that's been resonating for me is what's different here right now at Portland Public Schools? I think is this collection of talent in front of you, the ones sitting in the seats, the ones that are going to show up to school tomorrow morning bright and early because I think there's what you won't always find in other school systems is a really clear alignment around the task that we have in front of us, around the desire for more equitable outcomes, around clarity, around the theory of action that we're embarking on. You know, that coherence is a rare thing. And so I just want to appreciate the team here because this is their work every single day. Results will arrive when the organization's capacity is raised. And that's the name of the game. So just want to say thank you to all our people out there. Awesome. Awesome. And I'm hoping we have the whole group for a number of many years mean adjourned.

