start time: 00:41:20.000
end time: 1716:12:00.000
confidence: 0.95
A: If everyone's okay with that. I figured we'd get started, come back to student Success Committee. Everyone's okay. So I guess before you started, seems like I asked really quick, change things around a little bit because we have some people sign up for public comment. It was about the jrotc. But the only thing we have on our agenda today is talking about equal rating practices. So I figured we would have public comment go first. That way, you can if you want, but you don't have to sit through the whole entire discussion about equal grading practices. If that's okay with everyone. Yes. Right. Great. So just do quick introductions really quick, and then we'll do public comment and then talk about equitable grading practices. Terry, you want to start? Yes. Hi, Terry. From Arthur Communications Department. Felix Houston, Senior Director for high school core academics. Richard Smith, Director of middle grades redesign. Good evening. I'm Joanna Tobin, Senior Director for middle grades core academics and redesign. Christina Howard, Interim Chief Academic Officer. Eddie Wong, Chair. Patty Sullivan Elementary. My name is Mike Reising. John Gresham. Herschel Sold. Sylvia Hart Landsberg, also with Reprinter Watch Beauty. Cheryl Proctor, Deputy Superintendent. Rosanna Powell, Board manager. Kara Bradshaw, Executive Assistant. And we did have both, except we do have JJ also try to bring in our students. Yeah, jj, can you hear us? We'll promote you to panelists. You have to accept the request. Them. Well, we can keep trying to bring them on. Okay, great. Yeah, let's. Let's get started with public health. Partial shoals. I want to respond to a couple of comments I heard last time, and one of them, they're talking about jrotc, and they're trying to keep a graduate, keep people from dropping out of school. But I think JR OTC is really the wrong thing to do. You know, in the United States, we have a huge military budget, and I think the solution to keeping people in the school is what the teachers are saying. Reduce class size. Now, Cuba has a student teacher ratio of 1 to 12, and they had a test down there several years ago in Cuba, and they had surprising results. So they said they must have made a mistake. Let's test it again. They tested again with the same results. Class size really makes a difference. Another thing on the OR comment I made that you can go to the 711 and get shot. To me, that's a fairly callous comment. And there are a lot of other things that happen when you go in the military. One of them is post Traumatic Stress Disorder, ptsd. And it's a really a serious thing. It kind of just that alone Kind of debilitates people, making them kind of difficult to maybe have a career by doing things, by maybe doing things that you don't want to do or by seeing your friends bleed out. It's a very, very serious thing, what we do in the military. And I, I think it's really kind of irresponsible to, to be sending out people or putting people in the military to kind of be the enforcer of foreign policy when a lot of people, I'm assuming a lot of people right here, don't know what the foreign policy is. And I, I recommend if anybody wants to know what our foreign policy is, you can read the book Murder Incorporated by Mumia. See Jamal. Yes. Anybody? Abu Jamal. Yeah. Mumia. Abu Jamal. Yeah. He has a real critic of our U.S. foreign policy. And I just think as a group here, you should know what you're sending these people in. McNamara had a policy during the Vietnam War to send black people into the front lines. They were expendable. So to me, having the JROTC kind of come to the schools is kind of a continuation of this sending kind of endangering their lives because they're expendable. Didn't really disapprove of that. It's kind of a real racist attitude. Gosh, one more point here. I don't know, find out what the foreign policy is before you. Well, I know supposedly they're not going to be doing any recruiting, which is really an absurd notion because if you have a retired, untrained in education person, they're going to be talking about experiences they had, you know, the places they went, the people they met. Everything they say will kind of be a military recruitment. And if you were to read Mumia Abu Jamal, you would say, that's really not the foreign policy we want. Thank you, John Greshaw. Yeah, just a quick reminder. I forgot to remind earlier. I'm very sorry if I sit here. Yeah, absolutely. The timer is the two minute warning, right. And the public comments three minutes. So when you hear the timer, try to wrap things up quickly. Thank you. Yeah. Sorry for not reminding earlier. Okay. My name is John Greshow and I'm the coordinator for the War Resistors League here in Portland. At our last meeting, I shared some thoughts about generally recognized problems with JROTC programs. For your consideration this time, I want to share with you a few points from an article written by a teacher at Reynolds High School in Troutdale. Reynolds has had a JROTC program as part of its program since 2009, 2011. This teacher writes the potential presence of the military. Hold on just a second. I want to pass these around. This is the article I'm referring to. The potent presence of the military at RHS shines a floodlight on education and equity at rhs, College recruiters are few and far between, but military recruiters, JROTC commanders and ASVAB as Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery testers clamor to establish daily contact with potential recruits. All too often I hear the refrain, well, the military is a good option, or perhaps the only option for many kids. As educators we must ask critical questions. Whose interest do we ultimately serve by welcoming the military into our poorer schools? Is it really in any of our students best interests? What are the qualifications of the JROTC instructors? What does the JROTC curriculum actually teach our students? Then she adds, jrotc is not about education. By housing JROTC in public schools and offering them carte blanche privileges, we provide them a cloak of legitimacy. This Reynolds teacher describes how RHS has embraced school based initiatives including a commitment to restorative justice and peer mediation that teaches and encourages students to resolve conflicts nonviolently. JROTC's militarism runs counter to these programs. Schools across the country are employing a variety of methods to curb bullying and violent incidents, create safe learning environments, and teach peaceful means of conflict resolution. JROTC's introduction of weapons training, its partnership with the NRA to sponsor marksmanship matches, and its modeling of authoritarian militaristic solutions to problems contradicts the school's stated opposition to violence. This teacher reminds us that in 2014, after this program had been at Reynolds for three years, an avid and apparently mentally unstable JROTC student at RHS armed himself with a semiautomatic rifle and pistol, a knife, and hundreds of rounds of ammunition. He fatally shot one student and injured a teacher before police cornered him and he took his own life. This tragedy highlights the importance of closing down programs that feed violent tendencies and vulnerable students and contradict school based efforts to teach nonviolent conflict resolution. Thank you, Michael Prisoner hello everyone. My name is Mike Preizner. I live in Multnomah County. I met my first army recruiter when I was 15 at my high school. Like most boys at that age, I expressed an interest in the military. Or rather, I expressed an interest in the fantasy version of the military I had in my head. So they kept in close touch with me on campus. They became mentors in a way, and they convinced me to join. By the time I was 16 and days after my 17th birthday, they convinced me to join. Before my senior year, they convinced me to enlist through what is known as the delayed entry program. I did so because I knew I had no way to pay for college. I didn't have the grades for a scholarship, and they assured me that the delayed entry program would help me in the long run rather than waiting for graduation. But throughout senior year, I developed a different dream and a different direction in life. I fell in love with English literature and creative writing. And shortly before graduation, I had won a statewide creative writing competition that one of my teachers had submitted me to, and I was offered a writing scholarship at a state university. This new dream to pursue writing all came together very suddenly and unexpectedly, and it was so exciting. And I told my parents and my recruiters that I decided to take the scholarship instead of going into the military. My recruiters called my parents and told them that I would likely go to jail if I did not show up less than a month after my high school graduation, that I had already signed a contract I could not get out of. I would later learn that this was of course, a lie. I had not signed a binding contract. But feeling like I had no other choice, in the early morning of my 18th birthday, I shipped off to basic training. Three months later were the 911 attacks. Three years later, I would find myself in Iraq. And even though I had a job that my recruiters assured me would be behind a computer screen far from any war, I ended up doing things I spent the last 20 years grappling with. It changed the course of my life in a profound way. Let's just say my love of literature and writing did did not return with me from Iraq. And I was by far one of the lucky ones. My story is far from unique. In fact, when I got to boot camp, the most common mantra was my recruiter lied to me. Most memorable was a group of African American young people recruited from their high school basketball team. They were all in basic training under the belief that they had been recruited to the army basketball team. And it was our drill sergeant who had to tell them they were not on the army basketball team. They were in fact, forward observers, which is the most dangerous jobs in the Army. And they all of them would end up on one or more deployments to Iraq or Afghanistan, which they never expected. And I tell you these stories because I understand why many of you may want this program in your schools. It sounds great, the opportunities sound great, the opportunities sold to you by the representatives of the military. But they're selling you the same bill of goods that they sold us. They will tell you the most wonderful parts. Totally omit the risks, like the greatly increased risk of sexual assault, the fact that veterans are more likely than non veterans to be unemployed when they get out, to be homeless when they get out. The dangers on your mind and body. They've also been quite known to lie to you and to the students you're responsible for. But you have the luxury of being grown and experienced the wisdom and maturity to do your own research to check what you're being told. Students who are 17, 16, 15, 14, when ROTC reps will be forming these relationships with them, they do not have that same wisdom. They can be sold a fantasy just like me. And they cannot even imagine that they would be being lied to by these respectable soldiers in uniform welcomed into our schools. An investigation by the US Military itself determined that one in five military recruiters were found to have engaged in quote, recruiting improprieties from threats and coercion to false promises to young people. And the real numbers are surely much higher. And a major study conducted by the American Civil Liberties Union into recruitment practices concluded that quote, the U.S. military's practice of targeting low income youth and students of color in combination with exaggerated promises of financial rewards for enlistment undermines the voluntariness of their enlistment. End quote. So just came to say that the major, major life decision to join the military is one that should be made by adults. Jrotc, despite what you are told, will enable this decision to be made by children. Just like I was a child when they got me. Ultimately this is your their purpose. Despite what you're told, despite what you're told. They are recruiters. Those kids in our schools need adults to protect them. And right now you are those adults. Thank you, thank you, thank you to all those who came to speak today. On to the next of the agenda again you're welcome to stay or if you want to go. All good. Thank you for, thank you for coming. Really appreciate your voices here. Thank you. Standards based grading practices yeah. Ellie, Time S. Well thank you very much for the invitation to come back and engage in this conversation about equitable grading practices. As we shared earlier this fall, this initiative sits within our middle grades redesign grade 6 through 8 for all schools. That includes our K8s that that hold our 6th grade and then also a really lovely partnership with our 9th through 12th grade team led by Khalil. And so we wanted to start off by really anchoring equitable grading practices in these core shifts. We talked about this this fall but just a really brief review for anyone who wasn't a part of that earlier conversation. We talked about mathematically sound scales that's really grounded in Doug Reeves work 20 years to date. It was published in December of 20. And so really looking at that impact of a zero. The case against a zero highlights how a student receiving a zero on a grade on a, let's call it a somewhat traditional scale may have a huge impact, not reflecting their true knowledge base or performance on the standards. And so that's highlighted as one of those practices, practices that needs to be discontinued. Really looking at that impact of the zero performance standards, really clearly aligning our performance standards to the standards that we have adopted to our curriculum standards and that being clearly communicated to our students is another key piece. You'll hear a bit more about that tonight. Rubrics. This is really unveiling for students what they need to do to perform and meet the expectations of the learning and of the teacher. And then mitigating non academic factors. This includes things such as behavior, attendance. An example that we often use is the Kleenex box. Students being asked to bring something into class for extra credit. Well, if Richard can bring 10 Kleenex boxes and my family can't afford that, he may have an inflated grade and I may not. Right. So those are the things that we really want to see no longer happening. Really mitigating those non academic factors. Sure. So that really happened. Happened. I mean I can think of it happening in my experience as a student. Did anyone else have something like that? Yes. Can I share with you an example? Yes, if that's okay. So I was born and raised in Belgrade, Serbia. I came to this country not speaking English. And by the time I was in high school I was fairly proficient in English. I remember taking a very hard, must have been an honors history class, very difficult class. And for the final exam there was an extra credit question. The extra credit question was. And this was. We were all very nervous to do well in this final exam. And the extra credit question was who stole Christmas? And all my classmates were so excited. The answer, I had no idea. Obviously it's a very tiny example, but extra credit is a practice that is common. Was common and to some extent perhaps still is common. This is an effort to clarify what grades are based on. Thank you. Such a clear example. Another shift in the grading practices is really removing. It's really eliminating bias resistant. Oh, sorry, I've got ahead of myself here. We touched on that. Another piece is providing multiple opportunities to demonstrate proficiency. So this is One where sometimes when teachers first hear this, we really need to wade into this together and talk about it. Learning doesn't just happen in one moment. Right? And so a standard may be introduced. Maybe the first time a student is assessed they're on their way, but they're not yet proficient. But let's say they're doing a writing assessment later on or they're doing some kind of a presentation of learning and later on in the quarter they then have mastered that standard. Well, our work here shows, and a big body of two decades of work shows that then that grade ought to reflect the student's improved performance and knowledge of that standard. And so it doesn't mean that a teacher needs to be tasked with a lot of extra grading, but more so given permission to allow that student to keep learning throughout the quarter or semester. And then also really normalizing feedback. This is where students are giving feedback to one another. And it's really a learning environment with a growth mindset where the teacher isn't necessarily the only one giving that feedback. It helps with that whole culture and cultural shift within the classroom of the teacher not being the only one holding that knowledge. And then really looking at which we'll talk more about tonight, that standards based and competency based grading model. We've been working with neighboring districts and learning more about some great work here in our state. And then ultimately calculating grades in a way that reflects the student's final proficiency as I already touched on. And so ultimately as we talked about earlier this fall, if two students are going through two different classrooms and they have a similar mastery of the knowledge, our hope is that system wide those students grades would be similar. Right. Or the same. And so that's, that's really what we're up to. And we look forward to giving you more information. Since we last talked about this, I'm going to turn it over to Richard and sleep. So we, we have a plan that we're working through at the middle school and the high school level. There's some similarities and a few variations in that. And so we have this. I don't know if we have extra copies to pass around if we already did kind of a quick little one pager that goes through what our three year plan is around getting this implemented in schools. And some of that's beginning very quickly here. And so we are going to be, we teachers are receiving a survey this week to see if they're interested in being part of a team that will come together to review preexisting learning targets and to revise those and make sure they're aligned. And then once we have those done in February, that's the plan, then we're going to move into soliciting for next school year for math and English Language arts in the middle. And that pilot group is going to take those targets that we created and they're gonna roll those out system wide and then give feedback and edit and revise as needed for a final rollout in a 25, 26 school year for all teachers across 6A. And that's kind of where we're going for the middle. And then if you look at the state of our district around different schools are doing different grading systems, there's some that are completely doing this model already. The four that we know of are Hosford Middle School, kellogg Middle School, Mount Tabor Middle School and Vernon, which is a K8. And then within those schools some teachers are partially or fully implementing in other schools. So when I met with all 28 K8 and 68 principals over the summer and I asked them about this, every single one of them said they had some teachers that were doing it at their school. Some had more, some had less. It was quite all over the place with that. And so then I'll turn over to our high school is sure at the high school level. The important thing to remember, as I think is the case for middle schools as well, is that much of this work has been underway for many years. Different teachers have participated in professional development. Whether it was called proficiency based grading or standards based grading or grading for equity. These are different iterations of some common educational principles that have some variation between each other, but in many cases share some similarities. So all high schools use standards based equitable grading practices to some extent. We have some high schools that have full departments that are fully aligned. Other high schools have particular teachers who are implementing these practices. In a recent conversation with high school principals, they all express deep support and interest in wanting to continue supporting implementation of these practices and are interested in gaining some clarity around some contractual language. And to what extent we as a school district can set parameters for what grading practices should include. And our assessment is that absolutely we ought to set those parameters in the same way that we set parameters around what, what is the adopted curriculum and the extent to which it is standards based that we want our grading practices to be standard based as well. And so moving forward, if we go to the next slide similar to OR1, one resource that we wanted to share is that earlier this fall, Beaverton School District, for anybody who's interested, there's a brief video that they shared with their families which is linked here. Does a wonderful job of summarizing and student friendly and family friendly language what standards based equitable grading practices are and what families can expect to see in their from their teachers and in their schools with regards to how their students will be will be assessed. So we're in the process of finalizing an implementation plan. This work will include identifying learning standards for each content area. We definitely want to lean on our teachers as experts who again have engaged in this work and will be important assets in this in this project. The hope is that next school year we begin small pilots where groups of teachers are implementing and using standards based gradebooks that throughout the year they will provide us with some feedback around so that we can fine tune those great books. And the hope is that we have a more complete rollout the following school year. Thank you. Couple questions, but first couple so I've been, I've actually used proficiency based grading for good on 10 years, probably eight of those years of PPs. So I know personally that a lot of teachers are already using it or at least a hybrid of some. And so I'm hoping that would help the rollout because there's one thing when naturally grows among teachers just because it's best practices. Right. But then having a district try to unify it is another challenge. So I'm just curious about if you could talk more about how we are supporting our teachers to help try to unify and create a more standard system. So again, just kind of back up a little bit. Right. One of the three big goals of proficiency based grading is that number one, we're trying to get away from students worrying about grades and they're worried more about learning it focus on learning, not on just getting grade. Right. Number two, like you said before, every kid grows at a different rate. So they may get a zero in the first assessment, but if they can, if all of a sudden they're doing all the trigonometry, trigonometric functions by the second semester as everyone else, they should have the same grade as everyone else. Right? Everyone learns at a different rate. And then number three, it's clear to the students what is expected of them. And that's where you talk about rubrics and stuff like that. So I feel like that. I just want to rephrase that. That's kind of. Am I missing anything like those. That's kind of the big picture goal of proficiency based grading. Right? You've identified the big pieces. Absolutely right. So now the question Is one of the big problems with grading in general is that every teacher, if every teacher has a different system, the students are spending more time navigating how the teachers grade than learning. Right. And so the same thing can happen, I think with proficiency. Every teacher has different ways of doing proficiency grading. They're still navigating, spending time navigating different systems. Right. So I guess the question is like how, what kind of vision do you have? I'm talking more about vision because I know this is still piloting and all that stuff about how we're supporting our teachers so that we can have just make it easier on everyone, especially our students. Before I jump in, I just want to invite Margaret Halbert, who is a teacher principal, been in the district for a long time and seen this work. Anything you'd want to add? Yeah, I mean, I think the biggest, the big piece that, where I think Director Wong, you're getting at is grading is about communication, right? Like that's the fundamental purpose of it. And with that then it's tied to. So clarity is important, as is the quality of the questions. It solicits answers from students to demonstrate their learning. So I think that what we, what I would say we experienced coming through the pandemic when students weren't physically in front of teachers is how do we know what kids know in this moment? So they started to think about not only how do they grade and communicate progress, right. But also what are the assessments. So grading and assessment and effective and balanced assessment is intertwined. And so what you're describing is, you know, I can have a standards based report card, right. That we see in elementary, but it's what, what is the work that the students are producing that leads to that mark right on the. So you can, you can get more fine tuned. Instead of it being on a four point scale, they're saying standard one. If I use a math standard around systems of linear equations, I can solve system of linear equations by graphing. Right. If that's the standard. The question is how are we assessing and what are the students opportunities? So this is where you get back to proficiency and sufficiency. How many times do you have to demonstrate it? Where do you demonstrate it? So this is where you start to get this conversation so quickly into how are we actually assessing students? Or if we go, that's kind of old school in some ways, but just asking students to demonstrate their learning and their understanding. So is it formative? Is it summative? We've done a variety of work, everything from Doug reeves to Ken O'Connor to Joe Feldman to Rick Stegans to a variety of other folks. But the question ultimately is, are we well versed in asking the questions and the ways and the opportunities for students to demonstrate their understanding? And then that gets connected to the work that we're doing, a lot of the work that we're doing around professional learning communities. So where are the opportunities for teachers to say, here's a body of work the students are producing. How is that informing our practice? And how do we communicate that back to students and families about their progress? So I think ultimately, you know, it's. This is, this is, you know, like the heart of what teaching and learning is, right? And so we can get stuck in the technical, like, what is the rubric? What is the score on the scale? But ultimately it's about communication, right? Like this is what we want students to learn and this is what it looks like so that students can not only, not only can educators assess the students or families look at it, but the kids can do it themselves. Like, oh, this is where I am relative to the progression. So ultimately that will be the goal on how do you get teachers talking with each other and supporting each other in that work within buildings? Often it's through content areas at the secondary level. But then how do you, you know, when you're looking at how does that look the same or different in performance based classes like dance versus math? Right, like, so there's some of those nuances that will continue to grow and develop. But the general thing of how are we communicating? I think that certainly come out of the pandemic. This was a critical piece that everyone was really wrestling with at that time. So there is going to be PLC time allowed devoted for this for teachers to work together to share and collaborate on. In the early days of proficiency based grading, when not many of us were doing it, it was huge asset to be able to work with other teachers and be like, oh yeah, these ideas. Oh wow, that was way more efficient than what I'm doing here, right? And it's that looking at student work together, right? So like what do you see and what is being produced and then how. What's the next step in the student? Right? So those conversations are critical to supporting not only the teachers and educators with each other, but then with the students. And that calls into question also the use of rubrics. You do have to have standardized rubrics in order for that to work. And then you do need to use rubric as the rubric as an instructional tool so students know exactly what it is. They need to be able to obtain an extra to make some progression. Because there are times that students do want the 4.0, and there are times they just don't want to exert themselves that much. But every student does have a right to know what it's going to take to attain whatever goal they want. The other piece of that, which I continually stress, is knowing the students that are in front of you and the students that you're going to be using the rubrics for, because depending on who they are, they might be able to demonstrate deeper learning with less versus the student who can do the whole thing. Right. So you've got to look at language proficiency, you've got to look at cognitive ability, and you've also got to look at your continuum and the length of time it's going to take them to attain that mastery. But it's all driven by a standardized rubric that everybody's agreed to. In language arts. For example, you could have a six point rubric, or you could have a four point rubric. But each of those descriptors explains clearly what a student needs to demonstrate in their writing to be able to earn the points in that category. So how do you exemplify that through your work? And how does somebody else look at it and say, yes, it does merit the score because it has to be totally objective and not subjective. So everybody looking at it see the same thing? Yes. And also a step by step in the rubric. Yes. Interesting that you also like to talk about standardized rubric, because one thing that could save teachers a lot of time and energy too, is that having standardized goals. So if you're an Algebra 2 teacher and your kids are coming from two, three different Algebra 1 teachers, you know, they're coming in with the same set of knowledge instead of having to differentiate from day one. So I think that there's a benefit of that. I just want to welcome. Oh, sorry. I saw Director Green is up there. And I know we didn't say hi to JJ earlier. If you two have any questions or want to say hi or I'd love to say hello, tell us a joke or something like that. I have no jokes to tell you outside of. I thought we moved. Director Reen's giving us a good one, but we can't hear it. Come on. Director Reed, did you have how to lip read? Can y'all hear me now? Working on it. Oh, we're working on it. There we go. Now we hear you. Okay, there we go. So I made the. The mistake of gutting my upstairs bathroom and forgetting that we had this, this meeting tonight because my daughter started complaining about her, her light not working and the lighting wasn't right, and that's why she was using my bathroom. So I started gutting it, and so that's why I'm not there tonight. I apologize. And I, I, for whatever the reason, I had the 11th on my mind, and so I spaced it. And for that I apologize. That might have been my fault. I think I was talking to you about the 11th at some point, so I'll take part of that blame. But I have another bathroom if you want to gut another. You can go at it if you want. There's a whole measure of proficiency we can talk about at that as well. Right. There's a bathroom work step by step, and you usually have to demonstrate it multiple times. So, you know. Right. Definitely want to hit that straight. Yeah. And that's the other point about proficiency is like, that's how the, the world works, right? Can you fly the plane or not? So, I mean, that's how the world grades you. And same thing here. Can you do trigger knob or find the area of circle or not? Anyways, the other piece that again, this is already happening to varying degrees. But for students who don't demonstrate proficiency by the end of, let's say, the first semester and they go into second semester, I remember the days when those students had to retake the whole class in the summer. Right. And whoever was teaching them in the summer actually had no idea what were their learning gaps because there were no systems in place to actually understand what. What learning targets did student master, what learning targets did they not master? And so in our schools, we already have schools and teachers and systems where we're becoming increasingly more nuanced, understanding, well, what is the completion that needs to happen, what is the learning that still needs to happen? And then we kind of create opportunities for students to complete that credit or recover that credit. This would allow us to really take those efforts to another level and become even more clear with our students and with our staff how to best support students who need additional time and additional resources and to be more targeted around those supports. Whereas before, the grade was simply a composite of a lot of things. Tests, homework, extra credit, chapter five. And like you said, it wasn't about specifically what is the learning that students need to demonstrate. So that's, that's one of the, that's another exciting, I think, feature of this. What is in place to actually help people get to that place if they're not making it. That's what always seems to be a problem. Are you talking about teachers or students? For students? Both, I guess. Well, more I'm talking about students. If you have a system in place that is taking a step by step rubric and this person is not making it, is there actual help for that student? I'll give you a high school example. Helping. And then it doesn't seem to happen at the high school level. Twice a month, we have what are called flex periods. These are tutorial opportunities for students to access more kind of individual time with their teachers. And we have schools and we have departments that come together and they decide as a team which teacher is going to be reteaching which learning targets they communicate to students. Hey, if you need to work on this learning target, go to this room. If you need more help with this learning target, you go to see this teacher. Right? So we're able to, again, just be much more intentional about how we support students. And this is not necessarily students who didn't earn a passing grade by the end of the semester. This is ongoing, right? This, you know, by the end of this week or by the end of this unit. These are some points of confusion. We can organize our supports around learning targets much more intentionally. If we're clear, what are we trying to get students to be able to do or to know? The good thing about that too is you can also create a portfolio system where the student can reflect on how many tries or attempts it took them to get from the initial attempt to what we consider to be proficient. And as time goes on, maybe they can reduce the number of trials and efforts. The beauty about that is that it encourages the student to continue to persevere because we do need children who can persevere, who have the stamina and the grit to at least stay with the more challenging tasks until it's done. And the portfolio at the end of the year just goes with them from one grade level to the next. It's a foundation of success in the past grade level and also very helpful towards ensuring your science. You said earlier, I think one thing I did hear from students, especially from a few of the DSE reps, was that they were wanting more flex time, more access to teachers because it was such a valuable time. So that, that's, that's good. The other thing. And then I'll call on jj. I see his hands up. And one more thing is, is. Well, I'll ask. This is a bigger question. So I'll wait to. I'll ask. I'm calling JJ first and then I'll ask this question. Okay. Hi everyone. Everyone's having a good day. So I was just wondering, is the plan to essentially like kind of equalize the grading system across the school district? And then my next question was, how does this directly benefit students? I think speaking to the middle grades, and I'll pass it to Fleet here in a second. This really sits within the middle grades redesign plan. And so as Richard emphasized earlier, really this year is organizing those teacher leaders. You touched on this before. Some teachers already are really utilizing this and are very comfortable and will be a tremendous part of the work this year in defining those standards and shaping the gradebook and moving forward. And we want that to build success. Success builds success. And then we have train the trainers model to lean upon within schools. To just touch on JJ's question, I love that. How will this benefit students? I feel like I could talk for a really long time on that and I'll flip it and say, I don't know how it doesn't. I think it brings the clarity of the rubric of knowing what you're aiming for. What's the standard? What is my teacher asking me to learn? It's that checkpoint of did I learn the material I needed to. If I didn't, what standards do I need to continue to work on? Where do I go during flight time? Or how can I go back and continue my unfinished work learning? I also just, you know, elevate that example again of two students in two different classrooms with similar understanding of material potentially getting drastically different grades. Potentially. Right. So this removes that potential. Where our hope would be that if two students in the same class or the district are both mastering material that their grades would reflect, would reflect that fully and so just ensures that system. And jj, anecdotally, I've been in a lot of classrooms that do this and the language of the students is so different. When they talk about the assignment, what they're working on, they talk about proficiency, they talk about this is what I need to do. They know very specifically what metrics they need to make need to do to get there. Not just, oh, I need to get it in on time or something along that line. It's very, very specific. And then to add one more thing, one of the things I've seen when seeing teachers teach a proficiency based grading is engagement. And especially not losing engagement. Like, for example, if a kid doesn't do well first quarter and gets a zero on something and they do the math, they calculate, oh yeah, there's no way I can get ever get above an F or a D, then they just start disengaging and whatnot. But if you have proficiency based system, what happens is if you prove a proficiency on something, all your past scores on that don't count because you already shown that you can fly an airplane. That's your grade. So what happens is that you have less students that basically disengage from class because they know that it's about the learning, not about something arbitrary like whether the teacher likes your writing style. It's a. It's a very clear goal and it creates more independence with students because then they have rubrics that they can rely on and see like these are the things I need to achieve. Yeah, but it also seems really good to me is that you don't get behind. Like I can remember taking some math courses that I could keep pretending I knew it, but it kept getting harder and harder and then you don't know it finally. So if you really are sure you know that step before you go to the next step, then you're going to learn. Otherwise you're just going to be probably get a C maybe, but you don't really know it. So this sounds really, really good to me as someone who stumbled at that. I would have loved to have been stopped and gone to that flex class and really know what to do before the next. Well, I think that you know, part of. And back to JJ's question about sort of we're part of. So we talked about communication is. Grading is about communication and it's. And so how specific and actionable is the feedback that you're giving students about what their next step is is really critical. And we talk a lot about creating independent, less dependent learners and saying, you know, how can I assess my own learning? Where am I? Here are the things that we're working towards. Which of them can I. Am I confident in? Which are the areas I need to focus? It helps students ask better questions and engage. It makes a reciprocal engagement and relationship with the teacher in the classroom. I think the part that I've also heard. And so one of the things that we need to work through as well when we were talking about getting behind is when there's multiple entry points. The question is, do you actually get stuff done? You know what I mean? So it's like, how do you help pay students so that they can see where they are in the body of work that they're doing and that they. We want multiple entry points and we also want students demonstrating understanding. Right. And So I think that's a common tension point in any secondary classroom of how do you keep welcoming folks in and saying, you know, that essay needs to actually get finished, so. Or that we're going to, you know, we're going to take one more round and then, you know, this is the goal. So I think, you know, one of the pieces where we've seen people really go through, I think, jj, to your point, is there are nuances that are different across classrooms, you know, often. And again, it's going to be tied to assessment. What are the questions that are being asked and how are students demonstrating their learning? But you're going to want there to be a frame, right? So there's a predictability about what the experience is going to be. It may not be uniform. Right. But there will be some predictability that we should be able to speak to not only within a specific classroom, but then across classrooms. And that requires a lot of calibration and work and collaboration for people to get on the same page about. What does that mean? I mean, I think probably right along Europe, teaching the sim camp days, right, where we would go and you'd have a stack of student tasks and you put teachers around a table and say, okay, did the student demonstrate understanding and how do you know? And what's the score and the rubric? And you had to calibrate with each other to develop that understanding. Right. And so there's a part of it that is done like, okay, we're going to build this out. And really the key is getting engagement, doing it as a group. Right. Whether it's building out the standards and agreeing to the work, to which ones we're going to highlight or, you know, this is how we agree that this is a deficit, this meets the criteria. Right. And so I think that that's also something that's really hopeful about the work, is it provides all these entry points into meaningful collaboration for staff and students. Did you. Yeah, I was wondering when you guys were making the equitable grading practices, I was wondering, what did the student engagement involvement look like? This project's been going on for, like, almost 10 years, right? Yeah, good question. So, I mean, I think it's come in a couple of ways, JJ. One is, @ individual school sites, there have been work that has happened with teacher teams and students and families around understanding. What does that look like? What's a little different, I think, from, like the video that Beaverton created, Like one of the big shifts is about how do students demonstrate and is it participation? Right. And sort of active Engagement or is it demonstrating understanding? Understanding. And that is, tends to be a place where we, it's where engaging students and talking about what does that mean? Like often you'll hear students, or like we're not going to write homework, right? Like may not because we're going to demonstrate proficiency. And so like there's this tension point of like, what does that mean exactly? From what is, as a student, what are you asking me to do and are you not grading everything I produce? Right. And so I think that that's probably the place that as we work with students has been like, how do we create that understanding of getting feedback? You receive feedback frequently, that things may be graded less frequently. Right. And so this is where I think we can lean heavily on our performance based classrooms. Where if you're in a dance classroom, for example, the verbal feedback that is happening on the regular basis in that classroom is constant, almost of small adjustments. But then where do they get sort of the formal rating is much more spaced out. And I think that that's kind of like how do we get that feedback? Balance that feedback and help kids progress is really a critical thing. And that's part of the engagement. And this particular thing. It has not happened broadly across the district. There have been pockets of spaces where it's been during textbook adoptions that has happened where there's been some conversation about assessments. Science has done some both at the middle school and high school, and then math is probably done at the most in various places across the district. You also see it at IB schools where they often are very rubric based and standards based. And so there is engagement. So it's what I would say is different is that we're saying how do we do this and engage across the system and not in pocket? So how do we connect the dots to make it seem more systematic? It does require that our educators have a very deep knowledge and understanding of standards because the standards are going to require that you design performance tasks that will allow students to attain those goals. We try not to give busy work because sometimes busy work can be very frustrating. And we try not to give work that will not be graded because then you send a message by default that the work that students are doing, you know, some of them, some of it is important, others are not. But in order for us to truly work on proficiency gradient systems, well, we do have to as a collective understand the standards beyond the superficial level, you know, and then understand the different ways, a variety of ways that students can demonstrate an understanding of that standard and apply it. So how do we design this performance tasks? Right. And I would say, you know, it's been woven in a little bit into the instructional framework. So we did have students involved, instructional framework and development, and not only with teachers and not only educators from a variety of stances, but then also we've done some outreach with families and with students. I don't, I mean, jj, your point is well taken. We can always do a better job with students and I think given central this is to their experience, engaging early and often is helpful. Remember like from my experience with a student, a lot, I mean, I don't know if this sort of addresses your question jj as well, a lot teachers are using some form of proficiency based grading. But I remember the feedback from students has always been overwhelmingly positive and great because they realize this is it's about the learning and not about trying to figure out how your teacher grades. Right. In fact, the most interesting thing is the biggest resistance among students tends to come from like the 4.5 GPA straight A students. Right? Because they're like I already figured out how to work the system and now you're requiring me to actually learn something. It was always an interesting conversation and I always thought that was interesting, that that was sort of like the biggest resistance. Which kind of leads me to the next thing I was going to ask. There's. So there's some known hurdles, right? Like for example you mentioned and I saw in your one pager here, it's great. Implement changes to gradebooks based on feedback. I mean one trouble, that hurdle that a lot I've heard from a lot of teachers is that trying to figure out how to get synergy right to work with proficiency grading. So is there, I don't know if you're able to speak to some work being done on that and supports being shown. And that's a little bit of what I think the experience has been for a lot of teachers is getting excited about an approach to grading and assessing that aligns with their beliefs, that is research based, that is effective and then unable to figure out how do I do this in the system that we are using. And so that's a little bit of the work that we will do centrally to help facilitate is to work with our synergy team, work with our canvas teams to create grade books that actually allow for this, know the purpose of what pedagogy they're using to address the needs of the students. Right. Sometimes you're conferring, at other times you're doing shared reading experiences or you're doing a Read aloud for whatever the reasons are. Right. I think that we have to get better at selecting the appropriate instructional tool to meet our students needs. If a student, for example, struggles with fluency because fluency doesn't impact comprehension. If a student struggles with fluency, then what you want to do is model fluency and give them the opportunity to model fluency in reading as much as possible. A one and done is not going to do it. When students are word collars, they're not going to comprehend because they spend too much time laboring to get through the individual words on the text. You need the fluency so they can integrate the information and make meaning. If they're not making meaning, then we're not getting where we need to do, where we need to get to. So how do we teach kids to make meaning while reading? Right. And that's where the book Mosaic of Thought comes in because it talks about all the connections you can possibly make. Teachers have to be intentional about that, especially at the lower grades. And kids love to be rented, adults love to be rented. Right. It just depends on what the topic is. Director Green, I appreciate that you gave me a title that I have not yet earned. That's right. So I think that in a way that is, you're asking, how are all these different people, pieces and steps that we're taking, how is this going to come? Because we want changes now, right? Like we want to see achievement change now. And you know, this is the later. It can be pretty later, but let's get the results now. As I think a little bit of what I'm hearing, right. And so I think, you know, what I'm hearing from Dr. O. It's about clarity. What is elder like? What is it? What does it mean to be person, proficient reader? What does it mean to be at fourth grader? How's that the same or different at fifth or at eighth grader? Or what does that mean to be able to really work with complex text? As you're a senior in high school, we should be able to speak to that and describe that. And I think that that's part of what the base, the value of standards based equitable grading practices do is it helps with that description and clarity. But then what Dr. O is talking about is that's one part, but then you actually have to do the pedagogy and the teaching. So there's this part that, you know, what I'm hearing is how do we bridge these two? These are not discrete things and it's not how a student experiences a classroom. So how is this going to make something different for a student? And how quickly are we going to see that difference? I think are questions that you're asking. And I think that's something that, you know, it has been around for a long time. Right. And we have. So why what's going to be different this time around, I think is a very excellent question. Appreciate it. And I think in addition to that, I, I can say Senior Director Calvert or Ms. Calvert's fine or Margaret's okay too. But I, I, I want to put a handle on it. But I, I, I think the other piece to that that I would look to and that I'm trying to make sure that we address and that is how do we ensure or what have we done to ensure that each of our educators is actually capable of teaching or presenting this information at the level at which we need to make sure that is done? At, like, what type of training have they been tested? Our kids get tested to make sure that they understand proficiency. Have the teachers been tested to make sure that they understand profic proficiency and that they're able to teach in more than one, more than one way? Because it's not a cookie cutter. Every student doesn't learn the same. So as an educator, it's my responsibility, it's my job to know how to teach at the multiple different levels at which kids learn. And what have we done to ensure that all the educators that are employed by PPS are capable of, of doing just that? And if they're not, then what do we have in place to get them to that point so that they can do it? Because at the end of the day, our kids, our future is what's at stake. And I don't have time for somebody's ego to be like, well, I shouldn't have to do this, or I don't want to do this, or, you know, I don't have time to do this? Because we can't continue to wait for people to feel good about doing something before we do something that's going to be better for our students? Our future can't wait. It's not. We can't just. So what have we done to make sure that every educator is capable of doing what we need them to do so that we can say with certainty that we can do this? Because everyone understands how to do it and everyone is capable of doing it. Now it's just a matter of how we roll it out. Because if we roll it out before everyone is capable of doing it, and I believe it was, I Stole this one from Dr. Proctor that the, the way you roll something out makes all the difference in the world. It makes all the difference in the world. You can have the best thing and roll it out wrong and it sucks egg. Nobody gets anything from it. So it doesn't matter if we roll out a great thing if no one is capable of actually, actually doing what we rolled out. So I guess I'm asking a layered lay questioning. Director Green, this is Christina. I haven't spoken a lot tonight, but I'm happy to jump in on this. My previous role was senior Director of Teacher Professional learning and I'm still actually currently doing that in addition to the intern chief role. And so just a few things, I completely agree with you. So just one thing to note is that all of our teachers have went through teacher training. They've taken tests, they're aligned to the content area that they've taught. Right. So there's that aspect of their schooling, their certification process, tspc, the state level mandates that exist there. And then when they come into our PPS system, we provide professional learning. And so all of the teachers that come into our system receive training around the curriculum. They receive initial training on the adopted curriculum that we just adopted. And then they have ongoing opportunities. Opportunities. Every school is allocated an instructional coach who also supports. Because there's two parts to what I hear your question asking. One is around how are we developing and supporting our teachers? And then the other layer to that question is what happens after development and support doesn't happen, what do we do then so that that becomes an accountability question. And so to the first question part around developing and coaching, what we've done this year is we've added coaches to every school site. Those are teacher leaders who were chosen by a robust interview process. They have an aligned job description that are versed and very have a lot of instructional expertise. And so those instructional coaches lead professional learning at the school site. They help facilitate all of the professional learning learning communities which are teacher groups in grade alike and content alike groups where teachers really dive into the curriculum, the standards, they dive into data protocols. I heard a lot about the conversations around what happens when a student doesn't understand. That's one of the processes and one of the four questions that we dive into is what happens when a student does not master that learning. And that's part of the conversations they have at the school site. And so that's something that we've switched this year. And so I think what we're, what we're seeing is change. I Know, and this is something that I know we've said over and over, but change takes time and we made a drastic shift this year by deploying supports to school sites where we can develop that capacity of the teacher to be able to do what we're asking them to do. And so I think to the second part of that conversation around accountability. I think Margaret and Dr. O can share what they do on the school side because that is a different type of conversation. We are really focusing in the Office of Teaching and Learning around development, coaching support PLCs where they're structured and have tons of systems level support that we built centrally to deploy to schools to be able to have those robust conversations around data. What happens when a student doesn't understand what are my standards? What am I looking for? What is the assessment that we're shooting for? What happens when we're taking an assessment like map or OSAs and we're digging into that data? What does student work look like? And so those are all the conversations that are happening at the school site. I'm going to pause and let Margaret and Dr. Talk to the second layer of the conversation which is around the accountability side. So one of the things that I try to look for when I actually, I don't try, my eyes just go there when I go to sites is exactly what the teacher is trying to teach. What's the learning target and what's the student expected to know at the end of the lesson? So if I run into Esther in the hall way and I say, what did you learn in your last class? Esther can in one sentence tell me exactly what it is, Right? So that's been a push, it's been a struggle, it's been a drive. I won't lie to you because sometimes you just don't see it. And when you don't see it, that tells me a number of things. It tells me number one, that the teachers aren't clear on what they want to teach. Number two, it tells me that the student isn't going to get much out of it because there isn't. Our brains are wired to learn in ways that connect information. So when the information is not designed to be presented in that manner, we already interfere with the ability of the learner to receive the information. And when we interfere with the ability of the learner to receive receive the information, then you have issues in the classroom and then there is truly no learning. You have what I call, what's the word that I use for it? I call it, I call it winging. It Right. You. You pretend like you're teaching, but you're really not teaching. You're just running down the path. Right? So, case in point, yesterday we were in a classroom that will remain our name. Friday when a classroom. And we walked in thinking the teacher was teaching something on calendars. This is lower primary. Then it became fractions, then it became counting money. So I stood there and I said, okay, what are we supposed to learn? You look around the room. There's no learning target. There are no objectives. I'm sitting there going, okay, so what information is the teacher gathering about the students as learners in the class classroom? Because there were those who were doing what she asked them to do, you know, faithfully. And then there were those who were goofing around. So then I started thinking, I wonder who. Why this child over here is goofing around. Is it because the task is too easy for them? Because that's the other thing we have to know. Otherwise we cause boredom to set it right. So it's like, okay, well, how much do we really know about this child? So I stepped out with the SC and started having that conversation. They. We had no learning targets. We're guessing the lesson. Right. We had a lot of strange student behaviors. You do that repeatedly over a couple of, what is it? Days? I mean, you, you send a message to kids. Right. And then we want to send out the smart ones and tell. Tell them that they are disruptive because we can't meet any. So can I presume from what you just stated that all teachers are required to have, like, lesson plans that. That show this is what each one of our learning targets. Learning targets are. I am going to that question to Dr. Proctor and Christina. Yeah, school supervision, I think. Yeah. You guys have school. The principal's expectation. So you tell us, what do the principals expect? That. Well, so here's the thing. Yes, it is definitely not in the contract. And when it's not in the contract, it's hard to enforce. Right. It is an expectation. So you have schools where you can say, and your teachers look at, they'll do it. And then you have others let them t. You, you know, we don't have to do it. It's not required. So what's the standard language and expectation from the district level? Which is why I said, pointed to Dr. Proctor and Christina. If we just have something that says everybody is expected to write lesson plans, then we can truly get behind it. But now it's. Yeah, it's in the job description. It's in this. It's. You Know. Yeah. It's in the teacher value. Yeah. It's a part of teacher evaluation. It's a part of the evaluation rubric that principals are using. It's a part of Danielson. It's also part of TSPC Educator Code of Ethics and its standards of conduct. So that language is there. It really is for the school supervisors to work with leaders to ensure that. We are doing that. I'm sorry. We're. We're at a time, and I'm gonna have to run, so I'm just gonna. Forgive me. Yeah. Thank you. Have a good evening. Have a great evening. All right, I just want to cut this. I'm gonna call on jj. I know your hand's been out for a while, so I just give you last thing, and then we're just going to close it off here after JJ's question or comment or. Yeah, I just really want to say thank you to Director Green for his questions he asked. I think, you know, those are questions we really need answers to. And, you know, as a black student, you know, who has an IEP who, you know, sometimes fell through the cracks, I think it's really good hearing about, you know, this grading practice. But sometimes the support, you know, and I've seen many other black students fell through the cracks. But the support we need is, you know, smaller class sizes, because it's very hard to get that extra support, you know, when. And we have, you know, we have amazing teachers at McDaniels, but it's extremely hard to get that individual support when we are, you know, our teachers are dealing with 30 students. And especially, you know, we. You know, we have amazing para educators, but we don't have enough to fully support our students. So I think it's great that we're looking at these grading practices, but I think the root causes of this is something we should really be addressing and looking into more. Thank you, jj. Really good comment. I know there's still a lot of questions. I still have a great question on grading, but I want to respect everyone's time. We might just punt a little bit of this discussion to the next one, if that's okay. And then I would like to, unless anyone has any last comments, I just want, again, respect everyone's time. I think we need to save some of this conversation for next time and last call. I. I just want to throw out an analogy if I can, just. Because student success in general, and it really builds to the next meeting. Yeah. As long as it's under a minute. I'm going to get everyone out playing in the street with your child. On. On a residential block. It has the 20 is plenty signs you have. Car drives through, hits your kid. Kids on the ground see this truck driving off. You have three choices. You can immediately stop everything and address your child. You can chase the truck, get the license plate. What's going on? You can call the police. Hey, I need help. Call ambulance. Hey, I need help. And I feel like right now we're kind of focusing on the truck. Let's keep the next kid from getting hit. But we're not addressing the one lane on the pavement right now, so. My hope is just at so many student success meetings, we're talking about the one lane on the ground. Like, practical terms. Hit it. Hit it. Don't worry, because I'm in. Thank you. That's great feedback. Appreciate you. Great. Besides, the meeting's adjourned. Have a good Monday. Good night, everyone.

