start time: 00:21:20.000
end time: 00:33:40.000
confidence: 0.68
A: Okay.

start time: 01:01:20.000
end time: 16:14:30.000
confidence: 0.97
B: Hello. I would like to call to order the first Audit Committee meeting for the 2425 year. Thank you all for coming tonight. I would like to welcome each of you to the Audit Committee Committee. We will start the meeting with introductions. And I'll start with myself. My name is Patty Sullivan. I am a member of the PPS Board and Chair of the Audit Committee. This is the first committee that I have served on as the chair. Last year I was on the Audit Committee and I learned so much about auditing at PPS from Janice. And I am still learning so much about auditing from Janice. I'm excited for this opportunity to serve as the Committee's chair. I want to encourage each of the Audit Committee members to reach out to me directly. If you have thoughts or ideas you would like to see the Audit Committee discuss this year, starting with Kara at that end of the table. Would everyone please introduce themselves?

start time: 16:50:50.000
end time: 21:37:10.000
confidence: 0.94
A: I'm Kara Bradshaw, Executive Assistant. And I'll take that moment to remind everybody to make sure to get the green button on your microphone closest to you when you want to talk. Mary Kathryn Moore, Internal Performance Auditor. Janice Hansen, Internal Performance Auditor.

start time: 21:47:00.000
end time: 22:27:20.000
confidence: 0.96
C: Jennifer Samuels. I'm a community member.

start time: 23:16:20.000
end time: 23:43:20.000
confidence: 0.86
D: Eddie Wong, Board member.

start time: 24:09:40.000
end time: 25:07:20.000
confidence: 0.88
E: Julia Vrim Edwards, Board Member and Audit Committee member.

start time: 25:47:00.000
end time: 26:52:00.000
confidence: 0.88
D: Hi everybody. Myung Lee. I'm the Interim Chief Financial Officer.

start time: 30:05:50.000
end time: 53:11:30.000
confidence: 0.95
B: She just reminded me and I forgot. Anyway, I'd especially like to thank Caroline, who's not here, but she's on back there. And Jennifer, I understand, Caroline, this is your second appointment to this committee. And Jennifer, I understand it's your first. Is that right? Thank you both for your commitment to serving on this committee. The Audit Committee would also like to include up to two students to serve on this committee as well. Students can be appointed by the student representative to the board or at the discretion of the Chair of the Audit Committee. I have asked PPS's internal auditor Janice to reach out to the student representative to the board. I understand that Janice has talked to JJ K and he has invited Janice to attend the next DSC District Student Council meeting to talk about the Audit Committee. So I hope we will have some students joining us for the next Audit Committee meeting. Okay, introduction's over. The next on the agenda for today's meeting is a report from students staff on corrective actions taken in response to last year's financial statement related findings. Myong, I think you are the one to do that.

start time: 53:16:30.000
end time: 159:38:00.000
confidence: 0.94
D: Thank you, Director Sullivan. This is an item that was discussed at a couple of board meetings last academic year. I believe the first time was in an audit committee meeting, let's say December of 2020, and then presented when the board accepted the audit or the AFR in January. So it's been a little while. But my understanding is that because of the Audit committee's responsibilities to follow up and basically continue to maintain oversight over audit bindings, that that's the context in which this is placed on tonight's agenda or today's agenda. So it's, it's not a new issue, but we do have one new document to share, which is a memo that covers actually the this item and the next item on the agenda that was prepared by Claire Hertz, who was the Deputy Superintendent of Business and Operations for several years before I myself arrived to pps. And that document basically goes into a little bit more detail about two topics. One is they're sort of in reverse order and we'll talk about the RFP next. But if you see the second page of that, that update or that memo on the second half, the bottom half of that page where it says implementation of corrective action plan from 2223 Financial Audit. And then going on to the top of page three, basically just provides the update that I'll just highlight tonight, which is when we had our corrective action plan which was accompanying the finding. We had a finding in our act for last year noted by our auditors. We responded by putting in writing the language that appears in number one, the first paragraph under number one, and then the first paragraph under number two. So I'll just, I won't read the whole thing, but the language that begins direct district executive financial leadership will meet with senior leadership members, etc. And then the update is again, not entirely new information, but for implementation. The district executive leadership team has discussed and confirmed that grant award documents must be in place before corresponding expenditures are incurred. And on a more technical note, the district has moved all capital related grants to a capital project sub fund designated for grant funding. And the grant manager and grant analysts have been working with budget holders of new grants in the application process and documenting the source of the funding during the application process. Then the second component of the Corrective Action Plan related to training and professional development. And again, the language in the Corrective Action Plan is in the first paragraph. Beginning accounting and grant managers will attend ongoing professional development and the implementation update. And some of this has been ongoing since the finding was made and responded to that all finance department accounting and grant managers are now members and have attended the annual conferences of the Oregon association of School Business Officials, that is. And the association of School Business Officials International. So, in particular, the general ledger and accounting team completed a three day webinar entitled Fundamentals Provided by Government Finance Officers Association. In addition, and managers will continue to attend state and national conferences on an annual basis to ensure that their training is up to date on the appropriate financial accounting requirements. And maybe I should have said this up front. I know it's been a while. The finding itself originally had to do with two different issues. One was the recording of a Federal Emergency Connectivity Grant that was allocated by the federal government as one of the several allocations of resources during the pandemic. And the second issue was how the revenues were recorded from a special state appropriation for the Harriet Tub Tubman relocation. And there were specific technical issues related to how those revenues were recorded. So there was no issue about funds being misused or no malfeasance of any kind or any ethical lapses, but pertaining to specific technical accounts codes that were used for those two sources of funds. And in the case of the special appropriation from the state for Harriet Tubman, the revenues were recorded as revenues when they were received, when they should have been recorded as unearned revenue. And that's an accounting distinction. Yes. Thank you, Director Brim Edwards. Yes. So not a dime has been misspent, but we needed to modify and amend the way they were recorded and learn from the misrecording in the first place. And so I think we're well on track to avoid any similar issues in the future. So with that, I'll pause and see if anyone, anybody has questions.

start time: 159:47:40.000
end time: 161:36:00.000
confidence: 0.99
B: Audit committee members, do you have any questions or comments you'd like to make before we go on?

start time: 162:54:20.000
end time: 185:14:34.000
confidence: 0.95
E: One thing, just in terms of, like, documenting and having all it together in one place, because I had. I don't recall having seen the letter before. It sounds like it looks like we had discussed at a board meeting. But I recall seeing the letter from Superintendent Greer or the board Chair Hollings. And I'm wondering if, just in the plan of action, in whatever, our response to sort of memorialize for the rest of time, if we've done the work that we put dates in of when these things happened. I mean, it says, you know, district leaders met and discussed. It's like, well, from my standpoint, it's like, when was that? Just again, so you have the who, what, where and when. And then the same thing about the conference attendee. I mean, I don't think you need the month, but just like, what year? This is the second one around the county. And Grant Middle Managers like what year they went to the conferences. And I know it's an ongoing. But just to sort of put a fine point of like some specifics, I mean, it looks like it's been done, but then it would just be able to. You could specifically identify, to be more precise. Yeah.

start time: 185:15:22.000
end time: 187:00:10.000
confidence: 0.93
D: Okay, thank you. We can do that going forward. Hopefully we won't have many occasions like this going forward, but.

start time: 187:02:10.000
end time: 189:09:00.000
confidence: 0.89
E: Yeah, hopefully. And we don't usually, so. Yes, but just to wrap things up, I'd appreciate that.

start time: 189:23:20.000
end time: 203:02:50.000
confidence: 0.94
B: Okay, thank you, Judy. And thank you, Myung. You're on next, too. So the next agenda item. This is a status update from staff on a request for proposal, the RFP to perform the annual audits of the District's annual Comprehensive Financial Report and the requirements for federal awards. I understand PPS's contract with its current external auditors expires in March of 2025, and staff is planning to do an RFP for this contract. One of the primary responsibilities of the audit committee is to recommend external audit contracts to the full board for approval. Myung, would you like to provide us with a status update with where staff is in the RFP process, highlighting what the audit committee's role will be?

start time: 203:22:30.000
end time: 274:55:28.000
confidence: 0.94
D: Yes. Thank you, Director Sullivan. So, as I mentioned a minute ago, the other topic in the same document prepared by Ms. Hertz is the RFP process. So the first sort of graphic aid there is timeline of the key events and target dates in the process. So we are very close to issuing the RFP itself. So we are looking to do that next week to invite responses to the request for proposals. And you can see that there are a few steps before proposals are due, including including soliciting or having a window for potential respondents to ask questions or seek clarification and then submit proposals in early January. The next line says interviews, if applicable. I think one of the questions we have is how many respondents. Hopefully there will be multiple qualified meritorious respondents to the request. And if it's appropriate to schedule interviews, then we would do that. The notice of intent to award we're targeting January 31st and the contract start date, as Director Sullivan alluded to, would begin in April of 2025. And the first year of audit services that would be covered by this contract would be the audit for the year that we're in now, 2425 fiscal year. And those activities in the spring basically represent the first phase, sometimes called pre audit, doing fieldwork and gathering information about processes and data. And then after the year closes in terms of the covered period, June 30th of 2025, when all of our entries are getting entered and recorded and squared away, then the auditors come back and this process has been going on for the 2324 audit over the last several months. So. But the covered period would extend multiple years, would cover five years of the contract period. And you can see the memo also excerpts the scope of work that's outlined in the rfp. And then on the second page that continues and then you see the evaluation criteria. So just in general, the eight different elements of the proposals that would be scored. So that's an outline of the process not highlighted in the memo. But to direct your Seldman, your question about the audit committee's role. This I tended to shortly before today's meeting, but I did consult with Hertz and Emily Cornidge, our director of purchasing and contracting, about their best advice about the role, the appropriate role of the audit committee in this process. And certainly we can discuss this. I know there's a lot to discuss today. We have some time to discuss this in subsequent meeting as well. But just initially, their advice is to have the audit committee occupy a policy role rather than a detailed deep engagement in reviewing the specific responses, the individual responses leading to the recommendation of a number three highest scoring vendor, for example, or applicant.

start time: 274:57:04.000
end time: 275:42:20.000
confidence: 1.00
B: So not part of the interview process.

start time: 275:48:40.000
end time: 293:07:40.000
confidence: 0.95
D: That's correct. That's correct. But that when we have the scorers complete their work and we have a recommendation that staff would present the recommendation to the board, including the audit committee. And that could be. That would be in writing. And then also there could be a discussion about the recommendation. I should say though that under applicable contracting regulations. I'm looking at Liz here too, that the board at that point does not have the choice before the board would be to award or to make no award rather than to award to a different respondent. So that's in a nutshell, that's the recommendations of my colleagues and myself in terms of the role of the audit committee.

start time: 293:32:40.000
end time: 295:53:40.000
confidence: 0.95
B: Okay. I was wondering, Julia, do you remember because I know you've been on the audit committee before. Do you remember about hiring?

start time: 296:07:20.000
end time: 315:14:40.000
confidence: 0.96
E: I'm trying to like I can't remember here. I think I can't remember here, but I will say I'm on the Oregon State University executive and Audit committee. And in fact we just went through this process two years ago, like a very extensive getting a new. We made a decision not for any bad reason, but just to change auditors because we've had the same auditor for a long point in time and myself. And one other committee member were on the scoring panel. I guess I'm concerned that that's not arm's length. Then we have the people scoring who actually are the ones who are also being the ones audited. So my preference would be to and I think it would be awkward to redo it if the board didn't agree. And also probably not a very good use of time. I mean, I would suggest some sort of hybrid scoring committee.

start time: 315:54:20.000
end time: 337:50:30.000
confidence: 0.93
D: May I make a comment that I should have mentioned before and it just slipped my mind. But your comment Director Bryn Edwards has reminded me of this. So as part of my brief conversation or interaction with Ms. Hertz and Director Courtnitch, we did, for what it's worth, we did also contemplate including Ms. Jansen in this process. I don't know how we can talk later about how you feel about that if you'd like, Janice, but that was something that was brought up. And then Ms. Courtnich also mentioned that and this was her recollection that on a previous occasion, I don't know if this was exactly the last time that an independent auditor was selected for PPS for a similar scope of work or comparable scope of work, but she did recall that a community member to the audit committee participated in the scoring or in reviewing the applications or the responses and scoring them. So just for reference.

start time: 338:37:40.000
end time: 353:41:36.000
confidence: 0.95
E: I would have been on the board at the time. So I think it was actually the community member who was actually an auditor. I don't, just speaking for myself, I don't feel comfortable having an all staff again because I think just the perception is that you want to create the arm's length relationship between the. I mean really it's staff work that's being audited. That's being audited, not the boards. And they should view that they're, they're working for the board, not necessarily for the staff. And I think that confuses things. If it's all staff that's recommending just.

start time: 353:44:08.000
end time: 359:27:40.000
confidence: 0.94
B: Yeah. Well, we are talking about what our role is. So I guess we need to do a little more discussion on that. Maybe. I don't know who to talk with. I guess you and Janice later find out and kind of report. Do you have a. Yeah, Jennifer might have.

start time: 359:34:00.000
end time: 363:51:56.000
confidence: 0.98
C: I was looking in here to see how quick I could get to. I was trying to remember what, what is stated in our charter that's in our role, that what is our role stated in the charter. About this piece, I think it says something about how the committee participates in the selection of the auditor.

start time: 363:55:08.000
end time: 364:22:00.000
confidence: 0.98
E: That'd be a Good place to look.

start time: 365:01:40.000
end time: 365:31:08.000
confidence: 0.86
B: Thank you. So glad you.

start time: 365:32:04.000
end time: 367:20:00.000
confidence: 0.95
A: The charter is posted so you can take a quick look and the policy is also posted in board books.

start time: 368:03:10.000
end time: 368:16:10.000
confidence: 0.72
B: Oh.

start time: 372:19:10.000
end time: 372:40:50.000
confidence: 0.89
E: It'S not in the policy.

start time: 375:52:40.000
end time: 377:13:40.000
confidence: 0.95
B: I know Janice is looking very carefully for it. She's going to find it in a minute.

start time: 379:11:20.000
end time: 380:32:20.000
confidence: 0.99
E: It doesn't appear to be in either policy or the charter.

start time: 382:12:50.000
end time: 386:37:30.000
confidence: 0.98
A: In that case, we should probably get that defined in there. But I just didn't look at it in advance for this and now I'm not seeing it. But I will get back to you guys on that.

start time: 386:39:30.000
end time: 386:48:58.000
confidence: 0.81
B: Okay, great.

start time: 386:49:54.000
end time: 387:09:14.000
confidence: 0.90
A: For our next meeting.

start time: 387:10:42.000
end time: 388:18:50.000
confidence: 0.98
B: Do that at the next meeting. Clarify that it looks like maybe Jennifer found.

start time: 388:19:30.000
end time: 388:29:10.000
confidence: 0.99
A: It.

start time: 390:03:40.000
end time: 391:56:40.000
confidence: 0.90
C: Recommends external auditors to the board and provides ongoing oversight of audits performed by external auditors.

start time: 393:33:00.000
end time: 394:18:28.000
confidence: 0.92
B: So recommends. Who recommends?

start time: 394:20:04.000
end time: 394:56:52.000
confidence: 0.84
E: The audit committee. Recommends.

start time: 394:59:16.000
end time: 408:47:30.000
confidence: 0.98
C: Would you like to hear the rest of the board? It says the district contracts with independent external auditors for. For the annual comprehensive financial reports and bond performance audits. Audits of the district can also be performed by the Oregon Secretary of State Audit Services. Some of the committee's oversight responsibilities for external auditors include make recommendation to the board related to the contracting of external auditors, obtaining status updates from external audits while audits are being performed, receiving the presentation, reviewing the results, presentation of the audit reports. I abridged some of the rest of that. So it doesn't entirely say where we are in the selection process, but I would jump to that. We need to have enough information to make an informed recommendation if that's our role.

start time: 408:57:50.000
end time: 411:10:20.000
confidence: 0.97
B: Okay, thank you. And as you said, more of a policy role. But we'll clarify that at the next meeting. Thank you.

start time: 411:13:10.000
end time: 412:37:00.000
confidence: 0.95
E: So I have a question. How long has Talbot been our.

start time: 413:10:00.000
end time: 416:17:36.000
confidence: 0.99
D: Auditor? I believe it's been seven years, but I can verify that. Janice, I'm not sure if that's.

start time: 416:20:48.000
end time: 418:18:30.000
confidence: 0.96
A: I think it's between 10 to 15 years. As far back as I looked in the. It was all though.

start time: 418:21:20.000
end time: 437:42:38.000
confidence: 0.96
E: So that would be one thing I would also be interested in knowing and just it's good practice. I mean, there's a lot of people who can do this type of audits to have a fresh set of eyes and also again, continue to have an independent relationship. Sometimes just over time, relationships become less arm's length. The other thing is a question I would have, and this is maybe for Emily about the contracting, but if Talbert were to again put in something in there, be an applicant that I'd want to know how long their lead for PPS has been in that role. Again, it's best practice to switch Those out periodically. Again, you get a fresh set of eyes. And also not establish relationships that may not create sort of that arm's length independence. So that would be the other question I'd have about Talbot if they were an applicant.

start time: 437:45:34.000
end time: 437:55:26.000
confidence: 0.98
A: Yes.

start time: 437:57:18.000
end time: 464:38:34.000
confidence: 0.95
D: And I happen to know the answer to that question, which is for that same. Based on that same rationale and best practice, they did switch lead partners on the engagement last year. So because the firm has served in this capacity for a fairly long time, they did make that assignment change. So the lead partner has. Has been substituted. And that's. They're in their second year on the process for the 2324 audit now. So I believe that that's covering that best practice for this year's audit. And then next year, we don't know what the outcome of the selection process would be, but in the hypothetical that they were to continue, and I believe that that change in the assignment of the individual would continue to be valid, at least for the time being. And I apologize. When I was thinking of seven years, I realized what I was reaching for was not how long this firm has been our auditor, but the last time we engaged in an RFP process. And I'll verify that as well. But that's my somewhat buzzing, actually, if.

start time: 464:38:42.000
end time: 466:39:22.000
confidence: 0.91
E: We could do that, because I'm sure Emily can pull like who was on that committee and if it was seven years ago. So I was here.

start time: 466:39:46.000
end time: 467:51:50.000
confidence: 0.81
D: So refresh my memory. Yes, we'll get that. We'll track that down.

start time: 468:15:40.000
end time: 469:32:04.000
confidence: 0.99
B: Okay, thank you. I think we know where we're going for this.

start time: 469:34:52.000
end time: 470:04:20.000
confidence: 0.94
E: So where are we going?

start time: 470:06:20.000
end time: 470:50:00.000
confidence: 0.93
B: We're going for more information. Okay.

start time: 471:03:40.000
end time: 471:16:04.000
confidence: 0.68
C: Okay.

start time: 471:18:12.000
end time: 475:43:26.000
confidence: 0.94
E: I very much would want to get more information about what we did before. But also, just like best practice, again, I think the auditor should view that they're working for the board versus for staff.

start time: 475:45:58.000
end time: 486:55:10.000
confidence: 0.97
B: Right. And find out what our role actually should be in hiring, since obviously we're probably not as knowledgeable about auditing as some others. Okay, thank you, Myung. Thanks for the update. We're going to go to the next agenda item, which is overview of the Office of Internal Performance Audit? Another primary response, responsibility of the Audit Committee is to provide oversight and support for the Office of Internal Performance. Janice, would you like to provide us with the overview of the Office of Internal Performance, which I know you have very well set up?

start time: 487:13:30.000
end time: 667:16:20.000
confidence: 0.95
A: Yes. Okay. So I prepared a presentation and I printed it for you guys, but we also have it posted online, so. So it's the overview of the Office of Internal Performance Audit. And of course, as soon as Jennifer Sat down, she noticed that it says 2022 and not 2024 for today's date. So I apologize. That should be today's date as in 2024. Okay, so for this, the couple things we're going to talk about is we're going to introduce then turn audits Internal Performance Audit team. We're going to talk about what internal performance auditing is. We'll talk about our policy and our charter, our audit standards, the purpose of internal auditing, ethics and professionalism governing the internal audit functions, essential conditions and key performance indicators. So the introduction of the PPS auditing team is myself and Mary Katherine. I like to always point out that Mary Kathryn is a graduate from Grant High School. I love that they're everywhere. Okay, there's another one. Yeah, so I think that's really awesome when we have people work for us that, you know, were educated by us. Also, the next slide talks about what internal performance auditing is and I just provided the definitions there. I won't read them. The next slide is to talk about the policy and the charter. Both of those things are posted and the policy and the charter describe the Office of Internal Performance Audit's purpose and mission, the audit standards, the authority and access to employees records and property independence and objectivity responsibilities and scope. So we actually got new audit standards this year. So the primary the following information would be related to those new audit standards. Okay, so on the next slide you can see the audit standards are. We have two listed the generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards, which we call GAGAs, which is also known as the Yellow book. And that is because the COVID of the book is a bright yellow. So there's been a 2024 revision to GAGAS and for performance audits, it's not required to be implemented until December of 2024. So I didn't haven't learned all of the updates or done the training yet, but I will over the next year. So this is something. We'll talk about those updates more next year. I did want to point out the relationship between GAGAS and other professional standards. So in Gagus it says that auditors may use GAGAs in conjunction with professional standards auditing standards issued by other authoritative bodies. And for Performance audit, it says that GAGS does not incorporate other standards by reference, but recognizes that auditors may use or may be required to use other professional standards in conjunction with gags. And then it lists the different. A couple of different standards. And the. The red book is one of those standards. In case you're wondering why we have Two listed the red book or the yellow book for performance audits. It acknowledges that you probably have to have some red book standards to help you. The yellow book is written very specifically for government agencies and does not provide guidance relating to the operating of an internal audit function. So all of those standards are in the red book. The red book is red book. We call it red book because it is bright red cover. The most recent update was published in January of 2024 and is required implementation by January 2025. So if you flip to the next page, the red book update. There are a few updates that I wanted just to go over with you. The purpose of internal auditing, the ethics and professionalism and governing the internal audit function and required communications. So for the next slide we have the purpose of internal internal auditing. I recently went to a conference and someone from the IIA Institute of Internal Auditing was there, gave us some training on the new standards. And she was really awesome and super excited. And I was like, oh my goodness, she's excited about the stuff as I am. She was really great. But basically she said the. They really wanted to have an elevator pitch, like right in our audit standards that internal auditors could say in like three or less minutes. So I copied that information onto this slide. It says the purpose of internal auditing. Internal auditing strengthens this district's ability to create, protect and sustain value by providing the board and mandate management with independent, risk based and objective assurance advice, insights and foresight. Internal auditing enhances the district's successful achievement of its objectives, governance, risk management and control processes, decision making and oversight, reputation and credibility with its stakeholders and the ability to serve the public interest. In the past, the yellow book and the red book, one of the primary differences was the ability to serve in the public interest was not included in the red book. But in the 2024 update it is. So they're even more aligned with each other. The internal auditing function is most effective when it is performed by competent professionals in conformance with audit standards. The internal audit function is independently positioned with direct accountability to the board and internal auditors are free from undue influence and committed to making objective assessments. Okay, the next page talks about ethics and professionalism. And the new audit standards breaks down the ethics and professionalism into like five different categories. Demonstrating integrity, maintaining objectivity, demonstrate competency, exercise, due professional care, and maintaining confidentiality. So I just wanted to read for you guys the definition for demonstrating integrity because it's a really, it's really strongly worded. So it says integrity Is the behavior characterized by adherence to moral and ethical principles, including demonstrating honesty and the courage to act based on relevant facts, even when facing pressure to do otherwise, or when doing so might create a potential adverse personal or organizational consequences. In simple terms, auditors are expected to tell the truth and do the right thing, even when it's uncomfortable or difficult. Integrity is the foundation for all the other principles of ethics and professionalism, including objectivity, competency, due professional care, and confidentiality. The integrity of an internal auditor is essential to establishing trust and earning respect. So I know a lot of everybody signs, oftentimes signs ethical standards, and auditors are held to a very high ethical standard. And I just wanted to read that so you kind of have an idea of how strict the guidance is related to integrity. I also wanted just to point out the demonstration of competency sometimes. I think this is an area where I'll get questions sometimes. And I wanted to clarify on what audits we can and can't do. So audit standards require internal auditors must engage only in those services for which they have or can obtain the necessary competencies. So what that means is, between Mary Catherine and myself, we have to have the competencies to do the audits that we are assigned to do, or we have to go through training in order to get those competencies. But it's really important. And internal auditors were required to sign for every single audit that we do, that we have adequate competency and adequate resource sources to fulfill the objectives of the audit. An example might be. Well, as an example, we can talk about the audit that we're working on right now, the ESL audit. Like, we can audit to the standards, like what the state requirements are, what the federal requirements are, what our policy says and our administrative direction. But we would not be able to provide guidance or recommendations about things that are outside of those things. We wouldn't be able to generate best practices because we don't have the competencies in order to do that. Does that kind of explain a little bit of difference on what kinds of audits we can do? And a lot of times when we work at school districts, there's a lot of academic programming that could be audited. But we do have to be very careful about what we are auditing and make sure we have a strict criteria and we have the competencies in order to audit that area. Does that make sense?

start time: 668:40:40.000
end time: 671:26:50.000
confidence: 0.92
B: Yes. And I really appreciate your speaker spelling that out because that was important to me in some of the discussions we've had. And it really clarifies a lot.

start time: 671:28:50.000
end time: 671:37:46.000
confidence: 0.87
A: Thank You.

start time: 671:38:58.000
end time: 671:53:10.000
confidence: 0.88
B: Thank you.

start time: 672:24:50.000
end time: 754:20:30.000
confidence: 0.97
A: Yeah. So if you come up with a great audit idea, it's possible we may not have the competencies in order to do it. And we would have to just say that. And a way in which we would go about that, say we don't have it either. We can find a training to go to potentially contract out with another auditing firm who does have those expertise. All right, the next slide talks about governing the internal audit function. And this is the required communications part. So in the audit standard, it says auditors must discuss governing the internal audit function with the board and senior management. And the discussion should focus on the purposes of internal auditing, which is why I did a whole slide for that. And then the essential conditions, and there's nine of those and potential impacts on the effectiveness of internal audit function if the board or senior management does not provide the support outlined in the essential conditions. So I created an essential conditions document as a separate attachment that I printed for each of you. And I pulled these essential conditions directly from the audit standards, which is in a PDF and when I copied and pasted it, it messed up the format. And I noticed that there's a couple places where there's some typos. It deleted it in a couple of places and I thought I caught them all and you know, did find and search, but I'll show you that when we get there. Alright, so for the first one is the first essential condition is related to the internal audit mandate. And so we're just going to talk about the board responsibilities. So the board responsibility is to discuss with the chief audit executive and senior management the appropriate authority, roles, responsibilities of the internal audit function. And the second one is to improve the internal audit charter, which includes the internal audit mandate and the scope and types of internal audit services. So we already have our internal audit charter approved. So thank you for doing that. So there's really nothing in this specific category that requires immediate attention from the audit committee. Just going over them because this required to do so. So for the second essential condition is related to the internal audit charter. And you can see in that first bullet point, the word auditing has the IT or TI pulled out. I'm really sorry, I thought I caught all those, but I see it now for this, the essential conditions for the board is to discuss discuss with the chief audit executive and senior management other topics that should be included into the internal audit charter to enable an effective internal audit function. So based off today's discussion, there might be a need to do a little tweak to the charter to talk about the internal or the audit committee's roles and responsibilities related to contracting. So I'm making a note for that. The other thing is to approve the internal audit charter, which you guys have already done. Review the internal audit charter and the chief audit with the chief audit executive to consider changes affecting the organization, such as employment of a new chief audit executive or changes in the type, severity or interdependencies of risk to the organization. So we don't have anything significant to talk about in relationship to this one. All right. The next essential condition is related to board and senior management support. So the essential condition for the board is to champion internal audit function to enable it to fulfill its purpose of internal auditing and pursue its strategy and objectives. The second item is to work with senior management to enable the internal audit functions. Unrestricted access to data, records, information, personnel and physical properties. Another ti missing. Sorry about that. Necessary to fulfill the internal audit mandate to support the chief audit executive through regular direct communications. And then there's a couple of of ways in which we can demonstrate that support that are listed there. So for now, I don't see anything in this category that requires immediate attention. Just going over them with you. The next. The next essential condition is related to organizational independence and for the board, the essential conditions.

start time: 754:23:10.000
end time: 760:08:06.000
confidence: 0.97
E: Janice, one thing I had about there's some things in here that has the board meeting periodically with the chief audit executive without senior management. And given that we're a public body, we could never do that. So I'm assuming the things that don't apply that we. Right.

start time: 760:09:18.000
end time: 760:18:14.000
confidence: 0.98
A: That's true.

start time: 760:19:02.000
end time: 761:54:10.000
confidence: 0.95
E: Take out or it's just there's a couple places in here where it has that.

start time: 763:24:40.000
end time: 780:54:18.000
confidence: 0.97
A: Totally. And we are a government agency, so we're required to do our work in the public and have open public meeting act requirements as well. So in a situation like that where one of the ways in which you could demonstrate the support is to meet periodically with the chief audit executive in sessions without senior management present. So we the way we can do that now is one on one as opposed to as a full committee. And I do try to make it a point to meet with each one of the board members one on one at least once a year. Sometimes I try to get more of your time. But that is a way in which it could be demonstrated, even though that's a way it serves the same role is by meeting one on one as opposed to meeting as the full board without in like an executive session, which is not allowed. It's not an allowable purpose for an Executive session. Did that answer your question?

start time: 780:55:14.000
end time: 781:29:50.000
confidence: 0.78
B: Yep. Does that answer.

start time: 783:08:50.000
end time: 818:55:52.000
confidence: 0.96
A: Okay, Sorry. The next one is related to organizational independence. So the board essential condition is to establish a direct reporting relationship with the Chief Audit executive and internal audit function to enable internal audit function to fulfill its mandate. So we have that here at pps, I report directly to the board, typically via the Audit Committee. The next essential condition is to authorize the appointment and removal of the Chief Audit Executive, which I believe you guys did when you hired me. The next one is to provide input to senior management to support the performance evaluation and renewal vacation of the Chief Audit Executive. And here at pps, the chair of the Audit Committee does the evaluation for me specifically, and I do the evaluation for Mary Catherine. And so this is an essential condition, but it's the way we would demonstrate it is the Audit Committee chair does the evaluation, and that chair gets input from senior management and other board members to include into that. So it's kind of like the opposite way, but it's a better way. The next one is to provide the Chief Audit Executive with opportunities to to discuss significant and sensitive matters with the board. The part about including meetings without senior management present is not one part that we would actually do. The next one is to require that the Chief Audit Executive be positioned at a level within the organization that enables the internal audit services and responsibilities to be performed without interference from management. This positioning provides the organizational authority and the status to bring direct matters directly to senior management and escalate matters to the Board when necessary. The next one is to acknowledge the actual or potential impairment.

start time: 818:58:16.000
end time: 821:38:20.000
confidence: 0.98
C: Can I ask you about that? Can you make a comment on that one? Starting with that bullet you just read, require that the Chief Audit Executive. Do we meet that essential condition?

start time: 821:58:50.000
end time: 1067:17:40.000
confidence: 0.96
A: Yes. So here at pps, the way it works is I report administratively to either the Deputy Superintendent of authorization of. Hold on, let me look. The policy says specifically who I should report to, which is basically Myung's position and. Or, you know, designee. So I know we just had some title changes here at pps, but my reporting relationship administratively is important. To report at a level to somebody administratively who I could have real conversations with about what's going on throughout the whole district. You wouldn't want to have me report administratively to like, say, just. I don't know. I mean, the Chief Operating Officer, you know, like, I could definitely talk to that person about a variety of things, but that. That position may not have overall knowledge necessary to talk about all of the things anyways. So that's kind of. Did that Answer your question. And we are, we do report administratively to someone in a cabinet level position, which is the appropriate level to ensure that this essential condition works out. Thank you. Okay. All right, the next one is to acknowledge the actual or potential potential impairments to the internal audit functions. Independence when approving roles and responsibilities for the chief audit executive that are beyond the scope of internal auditing. So in this situation, occasion this doesn't happen a lot. But occasionally when I worked at Seattle school district we would do what is called board reports. So a board may member would ask internal audit for a report on something very specific. And in situations like that, there is a risk that the internal audit functions independence could be impaired. So anytime the board would like to ask the internal audit function to do anything really other than our audits, you would want to make sure and consider whether or not there might be a potential impairment, that activity might create a potential impairment. For an example, we did an audit of our P Card system policies and procedures and to ensure that there's no, you know, potential impairment there As a department, the Office of Internal Audit, we don't have a P Card, we don't use one. So we go to somebody else when we have some expenses that comes up and that helps ensure there's some independence. You never want to audit the process in which you participate in. So that's kind of an example. So we are, every time we do an audit, we try to make sure and check for independence. And we have a checklist and a matrix we go through for each audit to make sure we're independent the next one. So if there were ever any permits, it's my responsibility to come to you guys to tell you what those would be. So you would know because I would have to tell you. Engagement with senior management and the chief audit executive to establish appropriate safeguards if the chief audit executive roles and responsibilities impair or appear to paint the internal audit function. So if in that situation, for example, if our department did have a P card, well, then we would have to document and verbally communicate with the board what we're doing to ensure that the P US utilizing the P card in our department would not create an impairment. Does that kind of make sense? It's much easier just not to have one. The last one there is engage with senior management to ensure the internal audit function is free from interference to determine its scope, performing internal audit engagements and communicating results. All right, the next item is related to qualifications. So qualifications for the board essential conditions. The board is the essential condition is to review the requirements necessary for the chief Audit Executive to manage the internal audit function as described in the audit standard domain. And I believe that when you guys were doing a search for my position that you guys did, the board did consult with staff to make sure that you posted a position for the position that included all the competencies that the district wanted. All right to the next one is to approve the Chief Audit Executive's roles, responsibilities and identify necessary qualifications, experiences and competencies to carry out those roles and response responsibilities. Engage with senior management to appoint the Chief Audit Executive with the qualifications and competencies necessary to manage the internal audit function effectively and ensure quality performance of internal audit services. The next essential condition is related to board interactions. So the essential conditions for the Board is to communicate with the Chief Audit Executive to understand how the internal audit function is fulfilling its mandate. Communicate the Board's perspective on the organization's strategies, objectives and risks to assist the Chief Audit Executive with determining internal audit priorities. Another it missing in priority. Sorry about that. This is an area that I could really use some board interaction with. You know, I do meet with each board member at least once a year. But it would be really helpful for me to hear more about the Board's perspective related to the organization strategies, objectives and risks. That would really be helpful. So just keep that in mind next time I schedule a meeting with you. I'm going to try to. When I do schedule those annual check ins, I'll be a little bit more specific and when I request the meeting what kinds of information I'll be looking for. So I'll be more detailed to help encourage that communication to be a little bit more robust. Although everybody is really forthright with me and has meetings and everything. So it's great. But that is an area that as we mature as an internal audit function, we, we want to mature some of the conversations that we have as well with board members. So that would be part of that maturity. So the next item is to set expectations for the Chief Audit Executive for the frequency for which the Board wants to receive communications from the Chief Audit Executive. The criteria for determining which issues should be escalated to the Board such as significant risk, that is the, the Board's risk tolerance. So risk tolerance is something that we have not, I have not discussed with the Board. But the new audit standards give me a very good overview of what that conversation should be like. So that is a conversation that we will be talking about in this next, during this year and one of our audit committee meetings. I'm not prepared to talk about it tonight, but, but that is part of a maturing audit internal audit function where we actually start drilling into risk tolerance and what that is so we can talk about that in a future meeting. The process for escalating matters of importance to the board to gain an understanding of the effectiveness of the organization's governance, risk management and control processes based off the results of internal audit engagements and discussions with senior management and discussions with senior management. The last one there is to discuss with the chief audit executive disagreements with senior management or other stakeholders and provide necessary support. Provide support as necessary to enable the chief audit executive to perform the responsibilities outlined in the internal audit mandate. That's a lot. I really do like the essential conditions though because in the past there wasn't anything like this bullet pointed where it just really identified roles and responsibilities. And so I really like this update to the audit standards, although it does require a lot more work. But I really do appreciate them putting together something like this where it gives the bullet points. A lot of times new audit committee members don't always know what to expect. So in the future this will be a great way to orient new audit committee members to help them understand what their roles and responsibilities are. The next essential condition is related to resources. So the essential condition is to coordinate with senior management and provide the internal audit function with sufficient resources to fulfill its internal audit mandate and to achieve the internal audit plan. So in February of this year I'll bring the budget proposal for the Office of Internal Performance Audit to the audit committee for review and approval. The next one is to discuss with the internal or discuss with the chief audit executive at least annually the sufficiency both in numbers and capabilities of the internal audit resources to fulfill the internal audit mandate and achieve the internal audit plan. So we will talk about that in relationship to the budget in February. Consider the impact of insufficient resources on the internal audit mandate and plan and encourage or engage the senior management and the chief audit executive on remitting the situation if resources are determined to be insufficient. So we will have a robust conversation about this essential conditions in February when we talk about the budget. The next essential condition is related to quality. So the board essential conditions are to discuss with the chief audit executive the quality assurance and improvement program. Approve the internal audit functions performance objectives at least annually assess effectiveness and efficiency of the internal audit function. Such an assessment includes reviewing internal audit functions performance objectives including conformance with standards, laws, regulations, ability to meet internal audit mandate and progress towards completion of the audit plan considering the results of the internal audit functions quality assurance and improvement program, determining the extent to which the internal audit function's performance objectives are being met. So in today's meeting, we actually are going to talk about the performance measures for the Office of Internal Performance Audit. And that's I think, the second to the last objective or the second to the last agenda item. So we will talk about that more tonight. The next essential condition is related to external quality assessment. So the. The essential condition for the Board is to discuss with the Chief Audit executive the plans to have an external quality assessment of the internal audit functions conducted by an independent qualified assessor or assessment team. Collaborate with senior management and the Chief Audit Executive to determine the scope and the frequency of the external quality assessment. Consider responsibilities and regulatory requirements of the internal audit function and the Chief Audit Executive as described in the internal audit charter when defining the scope of the external quality assessment. Review and approve the Chief Audit Executive's plan for performance of an external quality assessment, which should cover a couple things. Review require the receipt of the complete results of the external quality assessment. Review and approve the Chief Audit Executives action plans to address identified deficiencies and opportunities for improvement. Approve a timeline for completion of the action plans and monitor the Chief Audit Executive's progress. So that's a lot of things for you guys to monitor me on or monitor the Chief Audit Executive internal audit function on. So to talk about the external quality assessment. So the yellow book also requires a peer review, which is the equivalency of an external quality assessment. So when the time comes, we need to have a certain number of audits completed before we would qualify to do a peer review. But I would anticipate in maybe the next three to five years we will be at a place where peer review would be appropriate. And when that time comes, I'll be sure to make sure and go over all these requirements with you again to make sure that you know what you're looking for. Whenever we do need to have that assessment. That's it. That's a lot of essential conditions. Does anybody have any questions about the essential conditions?

start time: 1068:03:20.000
end time: 1068:20:32.000
confidence: 1.00
B: That was a lot.

start time: 1068:22:16.000
end time: 1068:38:20.000
confidence: 0.99
A: It was a lot.

start time: 1069:02:00.000
end time: 1069:44:16.000
confidence: 0.92
B: Okay. We can look at them more carefully.

start time: 1069:47:28.000
end time: 1093:53:50.000
confidence: 0.97
A: Yeah. And we can talk like they're not required implementation until January. So they're not required implementation yet, but this is a preview of them so you'll know what to expect moving forward. Some of the conversations that you have with me be a little bit more detailed and a little bit more specific about information that I'm requesting and also some of the essential conditions. So at least you have a high level overview of what they are and we can keep talking about them, but it's brand new. And I appreciate that the Audit Standards include. Because it was really hard to kind of pull out these essential conditions from the previous version of the Audit Standards. And having a whole section on it, I think, is great. All right. The last element in the presentation related to the overview of the Office of Internal Performance Audit is related to key performance indicators. So we have a couple of key performance indicators. The first one is the number of audits completed per fte. So we hope to do one and a half audits per fte. That's our goal. The second key performance indicator is a recommendation implementation rate within two years of the report date. And the third one is the rate management.

start time: 1093:55:50.000
end time: 1094:23:26.000
confidence: 0.88
C: Can I ask a question about number two?

start time: 1094:24:38.000
end time: 1094:35:10.000
confidence: 0.90
A: Yes.

start time: 1094:37:50.000
end time: 1098:00:30.000
confidence: 0.99
C: Thank you. Excuse me for jumping in. Is the Internal Audit Performance Office held accountable for whether your recommendations are followed through on? Is this your performance indicator?

start time: 1098:01:50.000
end time: 1109:21:10.000
confidence: 0.96
A: Yes, it is. And so in the presentation for the annual report that's coming up, we're going to talk about the key. I will go into more detail on those, so if you don't mind, I'll move through this one, but we will talk about that specifically in another presentation. All right. So the third one is the rate of Management's agreement with the recommendation. And then we have some information performance measures, and we have an audit survey. So we'll talk about each of those things in our next presentation. But that's everything for this agenda item, the overview of the Office of Internal Performance Audit.

start time: 1109:30:50.000
end time: 1110:46:26.000
confidence: 0.94
D: This quick question says, Target 1.5 audits per FTE. Is that per year?

start time: 1110:48:58.000
end time: 1111:01:10.000
confidence: 0.98
A: Yes.

start time: 1111:37:30.000
end time: 1120:33:20.000
confidence: 0.96
B: Any other question? Okay, Janice, thank you. As I said, we'll be studying that further. So the next. The next agenda item is the 2024, 2025 audit committee work plan. I worked with Janice to come up with a work plan to help ensure the Audit Committee perform all of its duties, which we just heard about, and to tentatively draft up the Audit Committee meeting agendas for this year. Janice, would you please go over the Audit Committee's work plan with us?

start time: 1120:45:00.000
end time: 1171:30:18.000
confidence: 0.96
A: Yes. Okay, great. So I created a little memoir, and on the first page there, it lists the primary responsibilities of the Audit Committee and five steps of the Audit Committee work plan. These are posted on the Audit Committee's webpage. So there's no changes to the primary responsibilities of the Audit Committee or the overall Audit Committee plan. This has been the same. So what I did is I kind of penciled out the agendas for each of the Audit Committee meetings and tied each agenda item to either a primary responsibility listed or an audit committee work plan item. And this so I went through to make sure all three primary responsibilities were addressed in at least one of the agenda items. And all five of the work plans items are in here as well. So you can see, for example, for today's meeting, we have the agenda for today listed and how each action, each item is tied to either a primary responsibility or a work plan item. Hopefully that makes sense. And what I also did is put in the action items that might be required for items that are on the agenda. So for example, if you look at page three of six for the December, the meeting that we will need to do in December or probably the week of the 9th through the 13th, we'll have a presentation of the audit results of the, the annual comprehensive financial report and the report on the requirements of federal awards. So why are we having that agenda item? It's because what's one of our primary responsibilities? And it ties to Audit committee item number three and action would be a recommendation from the Audit committee to the full board to accept the ACFR audit at the next board meeting. And you can see if you flip to the next page, we will have a meeting roughly in February or March and we will have, we potentially will have some action items that we will do in that meeting related to the RFP for the contract. So I'm not sure exactly when, when this will flow through, but the action item would be a recommendation from the Audit committee to the full board to approve the contract for the, the auditors to perform the annual audit. Does that make sense? Okay, so I, I would just a.

start time: 1171:31:14.000
end time: 1188:38:32.000
confidence: 0.95
E: Question, a suggestion on the bond. I know we were supposed to have it at this committee. I'm concerned that it's not until February and we're going to be in the midst of like our next bond campaign. And generally, either in this committee or in the full board, we should be having discussion about the status of the bond before we refer our next one. So I'm concerned that it's in February, which would be like we've already referred and I think we're going to need to be able to account for where we are. At least I know we won't have completed all our spend for the 2020 bond, but we will have spent a fair amount and we'll have to actually be able to account for that. So I'm concerned about waiting till, I think February is too late. So I'm wondering if we get it on the 9th and if we, if, if this committee can't do it earlier it seems like we should have it.

start time: 1188:38:56.000
end time: 1188:56:20.000
confidence: 0.99
D: At the full board.

start time: 1189:16:00.000
end time: 1189:49:00.000
confidence: 0.99
E: I don't know if you have an opinion.

start time: 1190:22:40.000
end time: 1198:47:10.000
confidence: 0.93
D: May I ask whether I understand the point you're raising Director Brim Edwards? It's well taken by me at least I guess a question about whether the. Make sure I get my acronym right. The sort of new facilities in SFIOC structure. Is that a place where such a discussion could be taken up?

start time: 1199:09:30.000
end time: 1209:57:38.000
confidence: 0.96
E: Just as another option, it could. However, just looking at the meeting schedule we have so far, I'm thinking that they also. I mean, to like, compile the audit. Compile the referral, which will be a whole separate task. I mean, it could, but it would. We don't currently have it scheduled and I'm just concerned there's not going to be enough time. But also, I feel really strongly we can't. We can't move into a referral without being able to tell people where that previous bond.

start time: 1209:59:14.000
end time: 1221:39:46.000
confidence: 0.96
A: So to clarify, what you're talking about is the status of the implementation of recommendations made by our bond external auditors. So each year the bond external auditors issues a report to pps and included in there are recommendations and the Audit Committee's. One of their primary responsibilities is to follow up and provide oversight for the implementation of recommendations for all of the external auditors PPS has. And so that's what you're looking for, is for staff to come to report to the Audit Committee on the status of the implementation of recommendations that were made by the external bond auditor.

start time: 1221:41:38.000
end time: 1223:14:20.000
confidence: 0.88
E: Actually, I don't think we've ever even had the bond, the recommendation, the audit recommendations brought to the board.

start time: 1223:56:40.000
end time: 1225:32:16.000
confidence: 0.80
D: Have we had anything since 2020? I assume there's been the possibility, which.

start time: 1225:33:28.000
end time: 1231:30:00.000
confidence: 0.97
E: Generally goes to the Bond Accountability Committee, but that's not a substitute for us knowing. So there just needs to be some sort of board check point, so it's less about. I mean, obviously I care about what the findings are and what the district responses, but also it's getting the bond audit.

start time: 1231:39:40.000
end time: 1231:52:20.000
confidence: 0.47
A: Yes.

start time: 1231:55:00.000
end time: 1233:43:20.000
confidence: 0.97
E: And having it. I mean, they audit every year and then having an opportunity to actually ask them questions.

start time: 1234:27:40.000
end time: 1238:45:50.000
confidence: 0.96
A: Yeah. So the last two years. So the first, like three years ago, when Julia. Sorry, when. Julia, you were the chair of the Audit Committee. We actually had a joint committee meeting with the.

start time: 1239:32:10.000
end time: 1239:54:26.000
confidence: 0.80
E: Bond Advisory Committee.

start time: 1239:56:58.000
end time: 1253:29:20.000
confidence: 0.97
A: Yeah. And the Facilities Improvement Committee, whatever it was named at the time. So we had a joint committee meeting where the bond auditors came to present the results of the audit and there was an opportunity to ask questions and stuff, but that is, we haven't done it in the Last couple of years. I did check online before this meeting to see when the bond auditors typically issue their audit report. And it's not the same month every year, so it's a little bit harder for me to track. But I do try to pay attention to when their audit is completed and when it's ready. So I will be more attentive to making sure that that gets brought to the audit committee.

start time: 1253:37:00.000
end time: 1255:29:24.000
confidence: 0.99
B: Yeah. And we wanted to have this now, but it just sounded like they couldn't get it together.

start time: 1255:32:12.000
end time: 1262:08:10.000
confidence: 0.97
E: Well, even, I guess even last year's audit, like there's been no conversation with the board. And if we're going to go out and ask for another $1.8 billion, we should have the most recent audit and an opportunity to talk to the auditors, even if it's the one that got issued five months ago or whenever they last issued it.

start time: 1263:13:10.000
end time: 1263:57:18.000
confidence: 0.97
B: Yeah, I think it's important to be transparent about that.

start time: 1263:58:14.000
end time: 1264:01:18.000
confidence: 0.93
A: Yeah.

start time: 1264:01:34.000
end time: 1275:40:40.000
confidence: 0.95
E: And it's just, it's primarily because we're going to say like, so we didn't we just approve a billion dollar bond for you? It's like, yes, we did in 2020 and here's what we spent and we here's there's going to be questions about some things that haven't happened. And so we need to understand, have the independent financial sort of auditors to share what has happened. Again, it doesn't necessarily have to happen in this. I mean it's a natural place where it could happen. But since I'm seeing it on and actually something slightly different for February, I just think that's not a substitute for this other thing happening.

start time: 1276:18:20.000
end time: 1283:40:50.000
confidence: 0.97
A: How about I do send out some emails and see what we can make happen for our December meeting? It might need to add a little bit of extra time to our December meeting. But if it's really important, I'm sure we could potentially. I can't speak for management. I can at least request and see if we can make the agenda accommodate that additional item.

start time: 1284:10:30.000
end time: 1285:14:10.000
confidence: 0.98
E: Do you know when we got the last audit from the bond auditors?

start time: 1285:37:10.000
end time: 1297:38:00.000
confidence: 0.94
D: Off the top of my head, Director Brim Edwards, I do not. I have to look that up. But if I can comment on the question of the the December versus the February. I don't want to overspeak here either, but the request on the part of the key staff that would be preparing for and presenting at least the staff's role, playing the staff role in that conversation. Their request was not to have the discussion take place as late as February. It was more focused on seeking A little extra time beyond tonight.

start time: 1297:39:20.000
end time: 1297:51:20.000
confidence: 0.96
B: Beyond tonight.

start time: 1297:52:40.000
end time: 1302:35:50.000
confidence: 0.94
D: So I believe there were some other pressures or there are some other pressures in terms of the content as President Hansen said about how many other items are on the December meeting. But that's not a request that came from our COO or director of the Office of of School Modernization.

start time: 1302:44:10.000
end time: 1303:22:30.000
confidence: 0.99
B: So they might be okay with December.

start time: 1303:32:10.000
end time: 1304:05:50.000
confidence: 0.92
D: I would be optimistic that that would work for them.

start time: 1304:22:50.000
end time: 1309:07:30.000
confidence: 0.94
E: It's just, I know like for example in 2020 it was really important because there had been that huge hundred million dollar miss in 2017. So in 2020 people were, you know, kind of out for blood of like you have to show us that you actually estimated this.

start time: 1309:08:10.000
end time: 1309:12:18.000
confidence: 1.00
A: Right.

start time: 1309:13:14.000
end time: 1315:52:40.000
confidence: 0.96
E: You've spent the money and just seems like that's a necessary foundation piece for the next. For the next bond. And if they. I say if they have something that they've already done for last year, it's more the board receiving it. I'm a little bit surprised if I'm sure they did one that we didn't. We didn't receive it and that we have an opportunity to just understand where we are so we can speak to what we have or haven't done. That was part of the.

start time: 1316:08:20.000
end time: 1325:39:58.000
confidence: 0.95
D: And I do see that there was a report produced in February of 2023 and please help me if I'm referring to a different report but that's on the. On our website it's called Bond performance audit year four covering the 2017 and 2020 voter approved lot measures. And that was dated February of last year.

start time: 1325:40:54.000
end time: 1330:40:36.000
confidence: 0.92
E: Question I have is like did that ever come to the. I don't recall it coming to the board. It may have got to the bound Accountability Committee. Anyway, we're going to be the ones having to like tell the public how we. How the money was spent. So it just seems like okay, well in the big.

start time: 1330:41:18.000
end time: 1333:07:52.000
confidence: 0.96
B: Because of time. Can you and work together to find a time as soon as possible. Okay. Yep.

start time: 1333:08:56.000
end time: 1334:17:44.000
confidence: 0.94
A: We will make some adjustments and make that happen for the disability and it.

start time: 1334:17:52.000
end time: 1335:31:00.000
confidence: 0.90
E: May be relatively like painless. I mean just. Yeah, because that was.

start time: 1335:48:00.000
end time: 1336:36:20.000
confidence: 0.98
B: Okay. We've got a couple more things.

start time: 1336:52:00.000
end time: 1347:05:38.000
confidence: 0.95
A: Sorry to wrap up on this area. Thank you. Thank you Patty for asking me to do this. Tying it all out because it really helped me make sure that all of you, the audit committee does get all of the things. So that was probably a catch, you know that we. I mean it was a good thing for me to do this to tight committee responsibility out and put it into the agenda. And that's kind of how we came across the Fact that we hadn't gotten updates from related to the bond audit. So we will make sure it's included in this year.

start time: 1347:07:54.000
end time: 1350:40:18.000
confidence: 0.95
B: Okay, so it looks to me like we've done the work plan and Janice, the Office of Internal Audits annual report.

start time: 1350:42:34.000
end time: 1414:52:10.000
confidence: 0.97
A: Yes. Okay, so the next item is the Office of Internal Performance Audit's annual report. So that is posted. The first page there just talks about the Office of Internal Performance Audit and the audit standards. The next page talks about our performance measures. So we have a couple of performance measures and this is kind of the annual reporting out on those. So the first one is audits per fte. So one way to measure efficiency is by looking at the number of audits completed per full time equivalent employee. So per fte, since there's two of us, myself and Mary Kathryn, we try to do three audits per year. That's our goal. You can see listed there below is the number of audits that we've issued over the last five years. And you can see that we haven't met our goal. And that is sad for me. So I really did a deep dive to try to figure out where some of the inefficiencies might be coming from and how we could do better. And what I kind of came up with is in relationship to the initial planning of an audit. So right now what I do is I ask the audit committee and then the full board to approve an audit topic at a very high level. So I'll say I would like to do a building security audit that's one of the ones that's been approved. But I don't go into the specific objectives at the time. And initially the rationale behind that is because we're usually a year behind. So when we get something approved, it's usually at least a year after, you know, by the time we actually start working on the audit. And to be honest, I don't always remember everything that I planned for the year. So initially I thought that was a good strategy. But now what I'm seeing is once we get started on the audit, we spend a lot of time doing some of the initial questions about what should we be auditing within this program. So what I think would be a good idea is to be more specific about what the scope of the audit will be up front and when I'm asking for the audit committee's, you know, approval for the audit plan and so how the audit committee could help me in this process to make sure that I'm really kind of leaning into this and doing more of the Planning up front is in the May or June meeting of this year, of this year's audit committee, probably in 2025. Though, when I come to the audit committee to discuss the plan for next year, I should be providing you with a lot more information than what the audit plans have been provided in the past. And we can look at what the last year's audit plan is. I attached it as the next document, so you can see what high level. So that's what I've come up with. And it's really important for me to meet the performance expectations that we set. And so that's kind of how I plan to address it. And how the audit committee could help me and make sure and keep me accountable is in that June or May or June meeting to make sure when I come with the audit plan, I'm more specific about the objectives. All right, the next.

start time: 1414:54:10.000
end time: 1415:04:58.000
confidence: 0.95
E: Janice?

start time: 1415:06:34.000
end time: 1415:15:06.000
confidence: 0.59
A: Yes.

start time: 1415:16:58.000
end time: 1423:49:24.000
confidence: 0.95
E: One thing that seems like it would be helpful instead of waiting till June is for you just to pick some milestones. And every quarter you just report on what the milestones are. Because if you get to June and you are, you know, 80% through one audit versus, you know, through two audits and a quarter, it's like too late to catch up. So it seems like having milestones that you're going to report on quarterly that accomplish the three. The milestones. Accomplish three audits.

start time: 1423:51:32.000
end time: 1424:04:40.000
confidence: 0.61
A: Yep.

start time: 1424:13:00.000
end time: 1435:13:10.000
confidence: 0.95
E: And the other, the other suggestion I would have, because it's just looking back, it's like most years only one audit's been done versus three is is that at the very beginning when you're scoping it, if it seems like it's not going to hit, you have 600 hours for each of these. At least the first two last one's 500 is like rescope to limit the scope. I mean, catch. What are the most essential? There's probably some nice to have. So what are the most essentials to really try and have a plan that is realistic that lands the three audits this year.

start time: 1435:39:30.000
end time: 1522:56:30.000
confidence: 0.95
A: I agree with you. All right, so in the December meeting, I'll give you an update on that. Specifically, I'll work and create a milestone and be sure to include that in our next audit committee meeting. Okay, so the next performance map measure is the rate that management agrees with the recommendation. So as you mentioned, Jennifer, about seems odd to evaluate the Office of Internal Performance Audit based off whether or not management agrees or disagrees with a recommendation. But the truth is it is really a gauge of our efficiency and efficiency effectiveness is to convince management to agree with our recommendations. Based off of the integrity of the report and the evidence in the report should lead management to agree with the recommendations. And so that's why it is a performance evaluation for us is it's reflective of our ability to communicate the rationale and the understanding behind the recommendations and to effectively convince management to implement the recommendations. It is hard to be evaluated on something like that when the Office of Internal Performance Audit has no control. Management is free and can and does disagree with recommendations if that's the way they feel. And as for an example, in the last five years we've issued a total of 45 recommendations and a management agreed with 43 of them and they disagreed with two. So that's a 95, you know, plus percent rate, which is, which is really good. I think that, you know, when management is disagreeing with the recommendations, they probably have a very specific reason why. So perhaps as we move forward, if there are disagreements in the implementation or with the recommendation, maybe we could have staff explain the rationale for the disagreement in a little bit more detail. When we do the presentation of the audit results, the next one is the implementation rate. So we also looked at the percentage of recommendations implemented. So it's not enough just to have management agree with the recommendation. We actually want management to implement the recommendation. And so that is another measure of performance is whether or not the management follows through and implements the recommendation. So right now we have, of the 40, let's see, during the last five years we've been able to confirm 23 of the 45 recommendations, recommendations have been implemented. So right now that implementation rate is about 51%. And there are oftentimes recommendations that do take multiple years to be fully implemented. So for example, in our contracts audit, one of the ways in which management said they would address the recommendation recommendation was to get a new software system. So we don't just get a new software system, it takes a while to contract for it, then have it come in and testing. And so in situations like that, you wouldn't expect them to be able to implement that recommendation within a year. Sometimes it takes three to five years. So that's why we kind of use a three to five year implementation rate gauge. And right now we haven't had any audit reports that have been issued for more than five years. The audit, the contracts audit would be the one coming up in this, this year that will hit that five year mark. And so on the audit committee's agenda for the, I think it's the, we put them in for the February or March meeting. We'll have management provide a status update on the implementation of those recommendations and we'll see if there are any that are still outstanding. I think the last time they came to report, they were a little more than halfway through implementing all of the recommendations. So I know that there's probably progress and. But that's the first audit that will hit that five year mark. It's not there yet, but we'll have an opportunity to talk to management related to the implementation of that later on this year.

start time: 1523:26:50.000
end time: 1526:40:44.000
confidence: 0.94
B: Yeah. And that one is one. We have to get feedback anyway each year to see what they're doing. So it's hard. Yes, hard to implement. Okay.

start time: 1526:42:52.000
end time: 1551:26:06.000
confidence: 0.96
A: All right, the last page. Sorry. Is related to the oddity Feedback Survey. So we created this survey and we tried to figure out a way to have it be reported anonymously for staff so we could send it out to staff who participated in the audit and have them answer these questions and send the results back anonymously. And basically what we came up with is we couldn't really come up with a good way to do it because we're such a small department. We only do a small number of audits. So what Patti has agreed to do is to administer. Or Director Sullivan. Sorry, the Chair of the Audit Committee has agreed to administer the survey herself. To email the survey out directly to compile, you know, ask for a response and to compile the results independently and only provide the aggregated results to the Office of Internal Performance Audit so we can report out on it. And that's the best way that we were able to come up with in order to provide some level of anonymity. Yes. For staff reporting. You know, so they will feel comfortable saying, you know, saying whatever they want to say in relationship to these questions. And so Director Sullivan has sent out.

start time: 1551:28:38.000
end time: 1557:49:30.000
confidence: 0.95
B: Yeah, I've sent out six different. To six different people on four audits. The audits were student body funds, hardship petition waiver, procurement card and contracts audit. And I've got back five of the six and just waiting on the last one. And then I will give you the results and you won't know who they came from.

start time: 1557:51:30.000
end time: 1561:41:10.000
confidence: 0.98
A: Thank you very much for that. So we don't have the results to, you know, share in this exact report, but just know it's coming so you will get those in a future report. Bless you.

start time: 1562:03:30.000
end time: 1562:36:36.000
confidence: 0.68
B: Okay. It's. Is that.

start time: 1562:39:08.000
end time: 1563:47:16.000
confidence: 0.98
E: Madam Chair, I have to leave.

start time: 1563:49:08.000
end time: 1563:54:12.000
confidence: 0.98
B: I know.

start time: 1563:54:36.000
end time: 1564:03:32.000
confidence: 0.69
E: I think there's.

start time: 1564:04:36.000
end time: 1564:40:36.000
confidence: 0.95
B: Ready to say goodbye because there's.

start time: 1564:41:08.000
end time: 1566:01:20.000
confidence: 1.00
E: There's one last agenda item and it's. Is there any sort of action you Were going to take on it.

start time: 1566:13:00.000
end time: 1566:48:00.000
confidence: 1.00
B: I'm sorry, which one was that?

start time: 1567:29:00.000
end time: 1567:45:24.000
confidence: 0.97
E: The audit plan.

start time: 1567:46:52.000
end time: 1568:25:08.000
confidence: 0.95
B: Oh, the audit plan. Oh, yeah.

start time: 1568:26:44.000
end time: 1568:53:24.000
confidence: 1.00
A: Oh, I can be very quick.

start time: 1568:54:52.000
end time: 1569:37:08.000
confidence: 0.83
E: Okay, so is like a minute quick or.

start time: 1569:38:04.000
end time: 1577:46:52.000
confidence: 0.99
A: Yes, one minute. So very quickly, we have not. The audit plan that was approved for last year. We haven't made progress on that because we haven't met our goals. So this will just be the same audit plan for this year, like rollover audits. So we won't select any new audits for the 24, 25 school year that we're in right now. But in June of this year of 2025, this audit committee will get to pick audits for the following year.

start time: 1577:49:56.000
end time: 1578:31:24.000
confidence: 1.00
E: Okay, so this is just the same as last year?

start time: 1578:32:52.000
end time: 1578:43:40.000
confidence: 0.99
A: Yes.

start time: 1578:46:20.000
end time: 1579:46:00.000
confidence: 0.98
E: So were any audits completed last year?

start time: 1579:52:20.000
end time: 1580:34:52.000
confidence: 0.98
A: Yes, the student body fund audit.

start time: 1580:35:56.000
end time: 1581:23:56.000
confidence: 1.00
E: That's right. Okay, so we don't need to do anything with this?

start time: 1581:25:08.000
end time: 1581:40:12.000
confidence: 0.91
A: No, just.

start time: 1581:41:56.000
end time: 1582:47:20.000
confidence: 0.98
E: But you're going to come back with milestones of how this is going to be finished by the end of the year.

start time: 1582:55:00.000
end time: 1583:14:00.000
confidence: 0.92
D: Okay, great.

start time: 1583:41:40.000
end time: 1583:50:52.000
confidence: 0.92
E: Okay.

start time: 1583:51:56.000
end time: 1584:05:20.000
confidence: 0.69
B: Okay.

start time: 1584:14:00.000
end time: 1584:25:04.000
confidence: 0.84
D: Thank you.

start time: 1584:26:32.000
end time: 1584:39:00.000
confidence: 0.69
A: Okay.

start time: 1585:00:40.000
end time: 1586:42:20.000
confidence: 0.83
B: I'm sorry, Juliet, you may go. Before I go, just a question.

start time: 1586:47:20.000
end time: 1589:53:52.000
confidence: 0.95
D: For the Measure 98 audit, does that overlap somewhat with some. Because I know. Doesn't that require some external audit to also look into it? So is there any overlap?

start time: 1589:56:16.000
end time: 1613:46:30.000
confidence: 0.97
A: There is. So actually, at a conference that I went to just two weeks, just a week or two ago, I chatted with the auditor from the Secretary of state's audit division who's performing the statewide audit of measure 98. And I talked to that auditor about the scope of their audit and what they looked at. And, you know, because PPS is the largest school district, our outcomes would make up a significant portion of the overall state results. So I ask, what did you not look at, you know, that you think that we should look at here at pps? And then she did give me some ideas. So that audit I do anticipate being very scoped very well and very specific in relationship to some of the things that they did not cover in their audit that. That we can cover related to just pps. But I do reach out to other auditors who kind of audit things that relate to PPs to try to piggyback on anything that they do to reduce the level of risk for our audit and rely on some of the work they do to reduce the amount of work we have to do, if that makes sense. Yes. Thank you.

start time: 1614:02:10.000
end time: 1615:04:42.000
confidence: 0.88
D: In summary, it's supplementing instead of overlapping.

start time: 1615:07:06.000
end time: 1615:18:02.000
confidence: 0.97
A: Yes.

start time: 1615:20:26.000
end time: 1615:31:54.000
confidence: 0.96
D: Thank you.

start time: 1615:33:22.000
end time: 1615:45:50.000
confidence: 0.46
A: Okay.

start time: 1615:52:50.000
end time: 1623:46:24.000
confidence: 0.98
B: All right. Thank you. So we discussed a lot, Janice. Thank you so much for everything. So the next meeting of the audit committee will need to be during the week of December 9 to 13. So I think we decided we couldn't have the report the week before that. Right? Right. We have to go into the week of 9 to 13.

start time: 1623:47:52.000
end time: 1624:10:08.000
confidence: 0.58
D: Yes, that's correct.

start time: 1624:11:44.000
end time: 1629:40:20.000
confidence: 0.94
B: All right. I'm just sorry because I won't be here, so Eddie's going to have to do it. So I will be working with the board office to get that meeting scheduled as soon as as we are able to firm up a date. And it sounds like we have to pretty much get that date from you, right, Mia? When it's going to work?

start time: 1629:52:00.000
end time: 1635:02:08.000
confidence: 0.95
D: I believe any date as far as the staff involved and the deliverable in that week, I think any evening that week will be fine. I think it's more of a matter of scheduling for the committee members, what else is going on that week and scheduling conflicts and parameters.

start time: 1635:03:44.000
end time: 1635:42:24.000
confidence: 0.96
B: Okay. So we'll get Roseanne on that, I guess.

start time: 1635:43:12.000
end time: 1635:49:52.000
confidence: 0.44
A: Okay.

start time: 1635:50:56.000
end time: 1637:03:40.000
confidence: 0.99
B: Okay. Thank you. Anything else for the good of the group?

start time: 1637:11:20.000
end time: 1637:20:32.000
confidence: 0.80
A: No.

start time: 1637:22:16.000
end time: 1637:57:04.000
confidence: 0.90
B: All right. Since that's my first as chair.

start time: 1637:58:32.000
end time: 1638:05:20.000
confidence: 0.65
D: Yes.

start time: 1638:06:40.000
end time: 1638:32:16.000
confidence: 0.99
B: I'm going to call the meeting.

start time: 1638:33:28.000
end time: 1638:41:20.000
confidence: 0.38
E: Adjourn.

start time: 1638:42:40.000
end time: 1638:46:40.000
confidence: 0.31
A: Yay.

