start time: 01:30:40.000
end time: 2140:09:40.000
confidence: 0.94
A: All right, we're going to get started. This Facilities and Operations committee meeting for February 28, 2024 is called to order. All items being considered this evening are posted on the PPS website under the board and meeting tabs. This meeting is being streamlined stream live and can be found on PPS YouTube page for viewing or I think the next two weeks. All right, so we have a great, we have a packed schedule for dinner tonight. So we're going to try to make sure we're out of here by 8:00 as Vincent girls is playing and they start at 6:30 and I would love to go see them at least a little bit of them. I don't know if Grant got anyone playing tonight. Yeah, basketball. Okay. All right, so we're trying to get everybody out so they can, they can go see the root for their team. Today we're going to actually go in reverse order. Going reverse order. So we're going to start Brett first. I did get the email, so I, I hear you, whoever sent the email, go start with Grant first. Once we talk about Grant, we'll do public comments since I think that's all the public comments tonight is the Grant and then we'll move on from there. All right, Mr. John, you wanna. Yeah, let's kick it off. So we'll start with the Grant bull lights topic and I'm just going to turn over to our senior director of osm, Marina Creswell, want to talk through what we've learned researching data. Okay, thank you, Dan. So we did some relatively basic cost research. You know, we're done back when we did the master plan four years ago, it takes a certain amount of time to go and do the detailed. So we've tried to utilize the information that we had, which means that there's a little bit of, you know, squish to the numbers I guess technical term. We looked at both an option to do lights only and an option to do the remainder of the master plan. And when I say the remainder of the master plan, that is because we're already doing the project to replace the turf field and the track. So those were part of the original master plan. This would be everything else that was in there. One of the things that we discovered when we did the research on doing the lighting is that because lighting is conditional use permit requirements, we would have to address what's called non conforming upgrades. Non conforming upgrades. In this particular case, the biggest type of those that we're dealing with are actually accessibility upgrades to the site. So the pathways and the access to the bowl have to be accessible and they have to meet ADA requirements. That is considered non conforming upgrade when they don't actually conform to that. And what that told us is that we would have to go and regrade and repave all the paths. In addition, because of our agreement with parks, our recently negotiated agreement with parks over grand bowl, you would have to disconnect any utilities that are currently owned and run by parks and, and run our own utilities out to the building at the same time. Sprinklers or anything that's used to address the site where we're already doing work. So all that to say the number for the lights is more than just lights. So don't be surprised when I tell you it's roughly two and a half million dollars. That's a lot larger than any of us would want. And I think the other thing to kind of keep in mind is the master plan for Grant bowl was built around the idea that the seating for the bowl that we were going to put in would actually be built into the slope. And part of the reason for that is because there's not enough space within that bowl area to put in stadium seating, like, you know, the kind you see everywhere else. So when they did the master plan, they used the slope to their advantage to put in low seating. It not only helped us address some of those issues with accessibility and space for seating, but it also created much lower seating that allowed people to still really feel the open space of the bowl. You know, it's a very park like setting. That ability to really see across is, you know, it's what exists now, it's what people like. So that was part of the master plan. If we go and do all of the regrading, including all of those paths around, we're missing an opportunity to do the seating at the same time. Because when we come back to do seating, we're going to have to basically tear out a whole bunch of that in order to put the seating in. So we. So we did also look at the option to do the entire master plan because if we're going to do the seating, we also have to do restrooms. That's a code requirement. If we're going to have that many people able to sit at events, that means we're increasing our capacity for events. We probably want to go ahead and do the fencing that allows us to control people movement. And just to be clear, the fencing was not fencing at all. It was fencing with open areas that could then be managed by staff, by personnel, during events, but during the time. So just make that clear, because I know that's a hot topic. So we looked at the cost to do the entire master plan. It does actually make sense to do all those things together for those reasons. That's roughly 10 million. That's roughly what? 10 million. Okay. And again, we would want to go into some really, you know, more substantial cost, estimating if this is something that's moving forward. But this gets us in the ballpark to talk about it. So the lights and the associated improvements is two and a half. And then you're saying the whole thing is ten. The seating is seven and a half. It's the seating. It's the restrooms, it's the concession stand, because, again, now you're. You're bringing in a lot more folks. It's the fencing. So it's really all of those things that kind of go along with it. I just asked about the utilities. So there's already electricity running out there. But because it's the parks. It depends. Not everything is parks. There are some utilities running from us and some utilities running from them. But when we're talking about the site, for example, if there's any kind of irrigation on the site outside of the bowl, that is parks. So we would have to run our own irrigation, and we have to do so assuming we have electricity out there that we could use. The. All the other utilities are. Because of the ada. If we. If we. Because anytime you turn any. And you. If we are. We are going to be addressing utilities that are below ground because we have to, like. We don't want to try to work around something that we don't necessarily know how far. In most cases, we're gonna. We're gonna touch it. All right. Other questions here. And all the questions I think we should go to. Public comments. How long does the conditional use permit process normally take? Yeah, well, I'm trying to remember how long it took us for the lights at the upper field. Several months. Yeah. I mean, it takes. It takes time to design before you submit. You need to design before you submit. And then you go through the process and it varies. It's not a hard timeline. But when you submit during completeness approvals, I mean, four to six months is probably average. If there's any sort of significant questions back and forth, completeness check, or there's an appeal, it can be much longer. I mean, it can be as long as a year. If you're. If you're dealing with appeal. I think it was three. Any other questions? Thoughts? I Guess, just to be clear. So you're recommending to do it all at once, not to do it. Piece of noise. Well, you know, if money were no object, what makes the most sense, right? It doesn't. I mean, from a financial perspective, it doesn't make a lot of sense, efficiency wise to do all of that regrading and then come back and do a whole bunch of it over again. You're going to tear up the site quite a bit to install all those other things. But, you know, money is money, right? So the question is, do we have the money to do it? So you could do dish lights for. What was it? Two. Two million? Two and a half. And that's the lights and the regrading and repaving all of the pathways to be assessable. Thank you. Questions, comments, Thoughts? All right, let's go ahead and go to public comments. Can you hear? You can sit next to Angie. No, I can stay here. Okay. You can stay there if you want. Okay, thank you. I guess I just would first, my name is Kim McGier. Most of you have seen it before. I'm the parent of a Grant senior and a founding member of the Grant Bowl Community Coalition. I want to recognize that we have a room full of grand athletes and grandparents here tonight. It would have been really great to have a staff report with all that information so that we could have adjusted to it before we came today. I guess what I'll say before I get to my prepared comments, just in response to the staff is the city and parks were very, once we got them where we needed to be very supportive of the Grant bowl, of the Grant mission. So I question whether there is any way we can get a variance from all these requirements from the city, if that's been explored at all, so that we can just get lights. So I would ask staff to look into that. I guess I'll just move to my prepared comments because I know we don't have very much time. I'm asking this committee. We understand there's a resolution for the committee today for the Roosevelt grandstands and the McDaniel barn. We are asking the committee to add the grant lights to that resolution. Grant has been denied equitable athletic facilities for decades. For years, PPS was able to point the finger at parks as to why we couldn't get lights and why we couldn't get stands. And in large part because of this community and the organizing, organization and engagement of the Grant community, PPS now has unfettered ability to literally level the playing field for our Grant Athletes. Grant is the only school in the PIL that can't have night home games, whose varsity teams must travel to other facilities facilities to play a majority of their games because of the lack of lights. Grant athletes have experienced this inequity for decades, and now is the time for it to end. Not in the next bond, not two years from now. Now, we cannot deny our students yet another season of equitable facilities. I've repeated this and I'm going to say it again. Grant student athletes missed a thousand hours of instructional time to play their home games just this fall. These lacrosse players are going to miss even more this season. Season. There is nothing in front of this committee really ever that impacts instructional hours the way that this issue does for Grant athletes. You can put Grant athletes back in the classroom by putting lights on our field. So I would ask that you just continue to direct staff to do whatever it takes to get lights for fall of 2024. Thank you, Braden Baker. Braden's not here today, but he sent me a speech that he was going to say, so I'm just going to say it for him. Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed members of the Portland Public Schools board and fellow students, I'm Braden Baker, senior captain and quarterback of the Grant High school football team, proudly representing the Grant Generals. As I approach my final year of high school, I stand before you today with a sense of urgency and excitement. I speak not only for myself, but for my teammates, coaches and the entire Grant community when I express our unwavering support for the Grant bowl master planning project. We have dreamt of playing under the Friday night lights with our own home turf, with our own families, friends and classmates cheering us on from the stands. Grant bowl is more than just a field to us. It's where we come together as a team, where we push our limits and where we forge memories that will last a lifetime. The addition of lights, bleachers. I'll take your time. The addition of lights, bleachers and offense to the Grant bowl isn't just about the facilities. It's about giving us the opportunity to showcase our talent, dedication, hard work on a stage that we can proudly call our own. It's about creating a home field advantage that will inspire us to achieve greatness and unite our community in support of our goals. Understand the importance of phase two of the master plan, the full upgrade to the Grant pool and the need for funding to make it a reality. As a senior captain, I'm acutely aware that it's time, that time is of the essence, and that every Moment counts. That's why I urge the Portland Public School Board to prioritize the funding needed to complete phase two and to support us in our quest to turn our dreams into reality. I'm grateful for the opportunity to represent Grant High School football, Grant High School on the football field. And I'm humbled by the support that our community has shown us thus far. Together. Let us continue to strive for excellence both on and off the field, and let us work together to make the Grant Bowl a place where champions are made and memories are cherished for generations to come. Thank you for your time and consideration. Thank you. Thank you. Right. Hi, everyone. Sorry. A little frazzled trying to get through parking outside. All right, so Grant High School does not have lights. This is not normal. Cleveland, Roosevelt and Marshall all had lights installed in 2004. Jefferson, Lincoln and McDaniel all had existing lights replaced in 1963 from storm damage. McDaniel had lights prior to 1962. Lincoln had lights by 1952. Buckman has had lights since 1946, and Jefferson was the first school to get lights in 1946. 75 years ago. Over 75 years ago. It's 2024 and Grant High School, the largest PPS high school, one that will see no enrollment drop next year, does not have field lights. This is a picture. Pass this around from Grant magazine from 2013 next to a picture from 1927. They look almost identical. This photo is from Grant magazine, our student magazine. It's from 2013, 2013 issue. Our student writes at Grant. Remember, this is 2013 at Grant. There are no bleachers, there is no fencing, there's no main gate. Games for any sport have to be played at 4pm why? Because there are no lights. Grant is the only high school in Portland that doesn't have a lighted field. And the school's team will have to continue to use Lincoln. That's correct. For years, Grant had to use Lincoln's field as our home field. The Grantville Community Coalition sent out a one question survey around 8pm last night. We had over 500 responses in. By 1pm today, 100% support lights. Our favorite comment is from the Land Use Chair of the Grant Park Neighborhood Association. Speaking on behalf of herself, she writes in our outreach on the Grant Bowl. Over the last six months, I have spoken to many neighbors and community members about lighting on the Grant bowl, and the response has been overwhelmingly positive. Our community is united in wanting to see Grant athletics able to play games and conduct evening practices at the bowl and to minimize lost instructional time for students who have already given up far too much. The Granville Community Coalition advocated relentlessly to turn over control of the goal to pps. Now that you have it, you have an obligation not only to students, but to our Northeast Portland community. United. We're engaged. I'm almost done. And we're here to ask that you move forward with the estimate for grants, deal lights and any ADA requirements which should allow you to tap existing 2017 bond funds. The conditional use review needs to be process needs to be initiated right away to have any chance of having lights installed by fall. Everything that makes sense is something the city wouldn't do for us, and PPS really needs to help fix this. Now. This is truly urgent. Right. Thank you. State your name and just let it go. Okay. My name is Kate Rhonda Pruxa and I'm on the varsity women's soccer and lacrosse teams at Grant High School. Grant is the only high school in the Portland metro area without lights on their field. This has had a major impact on student athletes and the culture and community within our school. The women's cross team has never been able to practice at our high school and is forced out to Delta park every day for practice. This is because track and field, baseball and softball are given priority over us. They each take about one and a half to two hours after school each day. By this time, the sun has gone down, and because there are no lights, people are no longer able to use this space. So lacrosse is forced to spend thousands of dollars each season just so that we can get a space to practice. We're the only high school sports team in the state that spent additional money just to be able to practice. Meanwhile, the boys lacrosse team gets to practice at the Marshall campus for free due to being forced to play at Delta. In my three years of being at Grant High School, I've had a total of four games at Grant High School between two different varsity sports. Because home games are not played in our high school, it results in us having to leave school early every game day, regardless of it being a home or away game. This leads to mis instruction time in the class multiple times a week. Class times are also forced to be moved back to allow for students to travel from school to Delta. This means that students will start and end their extracurricular activities later than normal, which gives us less time for homework and other social events after practices. Additionally, travel to and from Delta burdens families with additional costs for gas and transportation that other athletes at other schools don't experience. Nest also has a huge impact on the community of the school. Lacrosse, soccer and football games are unable to be played at Grant because of our limited field time during the day. In order to come and watch games, students need to travel farther and work harder to coordinate rides, Especially underclassmen who can't drive. This leads to the student body being less involved and our sports teams being less supported. Lots of people from other schools talk about all their fun memories in their student sections of their school's games. Most Grant students have never experienced anything like this. Adding lights to the bowl would add five to six hours of use each day, allowing for more games and practices to be played. At our high school. What we're asking for isn't unreasonable. We are simply asking for what every other school in the PIL has and has had for over a decade. We're asking for a place to play at our high school where friends and family can come and support us. I urge you to consider the profound impacts that lights would have on our school community. The issue is not just about illuminating a playing field, but eliminating opportunities, enhancing academic and athletic experiences, and allowing for a stronger sense of community within our school. Right. Do we have any comments, thoughts, questions? I do. Somebody mentioned maybe we could access 2017 bond funds for this. Is that something we have? Not a short answer. So bond funds are technically written fairly broadly, so they could be used for all manner of capital. What are the bonds are also written to go towards specific improvements often. But that. That can be expanded and when that is expanded beyond what's pretty clear in the language and what is allowed by. By legally. It's loud. We would go to the board for that direction. That said capital funds, even remaining funds are limited and district needs are broad. So it's really a question about prioritization. They should ask some variance for the other upgrades from. From the city since we were just in negotiations with them. Is that planning department or maybe Andrew, you know this. I don't work there anymore. I'm assuming you're like a backup all that information. Julia, can you talk louder? I was just asking about the possibility of the variance. Like expanding the scope for everything else is a significant. I mean my assumption is that adds significantly to the cost. So there's money. Is that the planning or bds? I'm not sure. Okay. I mean, I think it's worth asking. So I just have a couple questions. So what I'm hearing you guys say is if we. A couple questions. Say, for instance, we say, you know what? We want to move this to the board to add the lights how long would it take to get those. Would those be in place by the fall of this year, process wise? I was thinking of steps. We need to go and procure a design. To do the design. Then the design has to be progressed far enough to submit for land use. Then we have to go through the land use process of which some of that is within our expanded control zone, does not look in our Spanish control zone, that timeline. Then we would have to permit and then we would have to procure a contractor and complete the work. So the likelihood of that all being completed and there might be some opportunities to ask for some variances or look for opportunities to expedite that process. I'd say having that all completed for fall is risky, unlikely. And so just, just curious if, if we look at doing the lights only now, I guess I'm like, what is the repercussions of the master plan and how long would that. Would that increase the time that the master plan could get done? You have to go back versus doing it all at once. It would. You're likely looking, as Marina noted, doing some work twice. So you're going to have some additional expense if you do it in a piecemeal fashion. That said, there's nothing specifically that would delay doing that second that additional phase of additional work other than making funding available. I'm just curious, is your recommendation that we wait and do it with the master planning contingent on this next bond measure going through and that's in the next bond. Do it all at once. You're going to have some economies of scale and it's going to be ultimately it's going to be more cost effective. That said, it's going to take longer. So it's really a choice of what you want to proceed to work with. So I have a lot of student athletes. I went to a high school that didn't have a regulation Washington. So we never had home games. And it does. It's bad. So I'm wondering, do we look at all. So say we get a. We get a variance from the city. What do we know what the just alliance costs are? We'd have to go back and reconsider because everything has additional. It's got all the profit and overhead for general contractor. It's got all those types of things. The permit costs are basically, when you do a cost estimate, they're multipliers on top of all this other stuff. So we can pull out a line item that says here's what the cost is for our subcontractor to buy these lights for them to put their labor on it. But we also have to look at any other impacts to the work that might bring in their own line items. Then we put multipliers on. So I'm happy to do the work to do that. But that, that is not the work that we've done so far. So I'm asking because I'm thinking back to. I want to say it was 202008 when we. The year I wasn't on the board then but was working on the project for putting in place at Cleveland and Marshall. And I think Rose. No, it was one of the high school. But it didn't seem like the city at the time. The city was part of the project. The parks Bureau at the time that we didn't have to do a bunch of other upgrades like Cleveland. It was just getting the lights and requirements do not confirm. We can certainly ask for. So it might have been like they waved their rules because they were involved in the project. Maybe, maybe. Or maybe the code has changed since then. I. I don't believe I did any conditional uses in 2008. My prior experience actually 2004. Okay. But we did just add lights. I mean it wasn't a whole host of things and it was actually relatively inexpensive because Pratt Electric did a bunch of in kind work. So one thing that you could consider, and this is always risky as well, but we've certainly done this on other things. If this is something that you decide fairly soon that you want to not be funding in the next, there's probably enough funding available to start a planning and design process to start moving it forward so that we can cut off some of the timeline to actually do the work so we don't get delayed by potentially rolling through this now. The risk to that, of course is if you ultimately don't put it in the next font for the construction piece, which is the piece that costs the most, work that you did could be forgotten. Codes can change. The city can change the things that they want from us. And we might have to go back and sort of redo some work in the future. However, that is one way to kind of potentially sort of hurry up the process while understanding that there's a bigger chunk of costs that you want to find a better source of landscape. How much would the planning piece to start that process be? You don't have. I mean, we don't know now. You don't know now. But I don't know now. But I could, you know, I think I feel comfortable. We could probably accommodate that. That Part of it. But 10 million is a much bigger chunk of change. And as you know, I think pointed out, there are other priorities that would have to be discussed too. Gotcha. Any other questions, Thoughts? Okay, well, we got. We got a lot of stuff we gotta talk about, so we will move on to the Roosevelt High School grandstands. But I also wanted to talk about, too, that at the next meeting. Let's have a conversation about that design process. I would like to know more about that at the. About that at the next. At the next national meeting. We can do that. All right. I also think in the meantime, with Lisa, we could go ask the city about the bears. You got the juice. Go tell them. So you know what? Interesting. I already sent a text. Yeah, just tell them. Go on and handle that. Yes. All right, Roll about grandstands. So we're gonna let Director Green introduce this. Excellent. Thank you. All right, so the last time we spoke, I think I was on the phone. I wasn't actually here. And I want to talk about the Roosevelt grandstands. And as. As I've stated before, I've stated it over and over again. We have continued to put off doing the Roosevelt grandstands. This. The stands that they currently have aren't even the stands that were designed to go for the football field. They were stands that were retrofitted to go over there. They were actually supposed to be at the baseball field. The current facility that's underneath the Roosevelt grandstands is so dilapidated that they have since moved the caution tape. But at one point, there was caution tape over there saying that it's unsafe to go into. And so students couldn't be around it, students couldn't be in it. And only specific staff, I'm assuming maybe the staff we didn't care so much about could actually go into the underneath to actually gain access to it. The stands currently seat about maybe. Maybe 800 or so. Maybe it's a small. It's a small fragment. What it is. And so what I'm asking is that like every other. Most of the other schools you've just heard say the grant doesn't have one. But I'm sorry, most of the others. Most of the other schools, when they were doing the modernization of those schools, then the. The grandstands were. Were done. Everything was done to a certain point. Roosevelt was not. Because at the time, Roosevelt didn't get money for the track and the field. They actually had to raise that money. And they got funders, they got donors. A lot of that came in from other places. But it didn't come from the bond money that a lot of this stuff, a lot of the other schools, track and field came from. So as where other schools were blessed to be able to get a track done with their school, Roosevelt had to go out and slave to get it done. And so when it came time to do the building and we didn't think about the or, we was like, no, we're not even going to talk about that because y'all already have a track and field, so there's no reason to talk about it. You don't need it, you know, be good with what you got. And yet that's not what we've done with every other school since then. The I know other schools don't have a visitor side, but they all have larger grants. When it came time to do it, it was like, okay, maybe we can get this done. It was put off. We'll look at the next one. So we'll look at the next time a bucket of money comes in or the next time this comes in. We'll look at what's left over after, after some of the other schools are done and then we'll see if we're, if there's any of the money left from the contingency funds and then we'll use that money to, you know, see what we can do with Roosevelt. And it was pushed again. It's continued to be pushed and it's always pushed to the next time some more money comes, then we'll think about Roosevelt. The next time some more money comes, we'll think about Roosevelt. And that day has not shown up. We keep pushing it, we keep pushing it. And that day has just not shown up. And so at this point, what I'm saying is stop, stop pushing. Stop kicking the can down the street. We've been lying to the community and saying that it's going to come, it's going to come, it's going to, and it has not come. Stop. And let's, let's move forward and let's get the grandstands and let's do it the same way that the other schools have so that we actually have a grandstand that we can be proud of and we have an area that's actually safe to go by. Gotcha. Gotcha. Thank you. So we have a resolution to move forward towards to the board. Is there any other questions or comments from anyone? Just as a point of order, the committee's voting on the rest of the non committing members. So that's you and Patty. Addie is that right. Me, Herman, Eddie and Julia. Oh, I'm sorry. It's okay. So do I have motion or. Oh, is there any public comment? Yeah. Okay. So. Yeah, so we make a motion. So I would like to make a motion that we submit the. The current resolution to the full board for review. Second. All right. All right. So now we just vote when we committee members vote to move this to the full board for their consideration. All in favor, say aye. All opposed? None. Resolution passes. 4 0. To move to the full board for consideration. All right, next. No worries. That's why I should have brought my stuff. All right, so next we're going to go to the Ida B. Wells High school updates. I will turn it over to Dave and I'm going to turn it over again to Marina. It'll go to the next. There's a spot right here. So it'll go to issues with it. We'll talk about. What time is it? So we've been moving forward with. Sorry. I'm sorry. Just as a. Just because I came in late and I apologize. So we're moving some things. We put a bond discussion. Yes, I have a. I. I'm not gonna be able to stay till 8 o'clock, so hopefully we can do. Okay. Do we have anybody here from Ida Wells? He wants to be here. That's what we're doing now. We're doing Ivy. Well, then Cleveland and then the dollar. I may need to get that Cleveland. That's terrible. Before we finish the. Gotcha. No worries. No worries. All right, let's go to Ida B. Wills now. Is he okay? I don't know how much difference be from last week. So we. We provided you with some information about the pool at Ida B. Wells. Very specifically, I'm here also Donna Pizzayo, who's our senior project manager for the Ida Wells modernization planning and design project. Just a reminder, we don't currently have construction funding for it. We are in planning and design. We provided you with information about the pool because this is a conversation that's been coming up during the comprehensive planning. And we've had a. A real diversity of opinions about what to do with the pool at Ida B. Wells. And so we wanted to give you some background information about our ownership status with the pool and how that works. We also want to talk about what some of the options might be for dealing with it as we move forward with the planning the comprehensive plan for IDB Wells modernization. So I know there was a lot of information to provide with a very short amount of time before tonight's Meeting. So I apologize if you have not had a chance to go through it. The, the, the quick way to summarize the ownership is that Portland Parks and Recreation owns the pool. It is not an easement. We do have an IGA that governs our relationship pool and we do, through that iga, we do have the right to close the pool temporarily or permanently. The rights don't necessarily mean the right thing to do. And so, you know, we also want to talk about what the, the impact of the pool is on that planning. Currently, the pool is an outdoor pool. It is heated and used only during the summertime. In the summer months, it is operated fully by Parks and Recreation. They pay all the costs of the maintenance of it and the operations of it. They receive all the revenues during the times that they are open. Our students and our school do not have access to the pool during the rest of the year. They have no special access. They could potentially access it certainly during the rest of the months, but it would be cold and outdoors. So it is not used by the swim team, it's not used by pe. What has come up during our planning is a concern that the pool sits very centrally located on the site. We don't have a ton of options in terms of where we place the buildings. And in most of our schemes that we've looked at, the pool is going to be a prominent piece of the campus. It's been noted we have a prominent piece of our campus that our students cannot use. So this is a concern. The swim team currently goes to Dishman. I understand that they have 60 athletes on the swim team and they are not able to do full practices for all athletes because they're only able to use four lanes at a time at Dishman, which means they can't get through every, every athlete doing a full practice. All meets are at Dishman. They've expressed a lot of interest in being able to use the pool for the swim team. The school is interested in using it for pe. That comes with some complications. So we looked at options for what we might be able to do with the pool and I shared some of those with you and the information. But we're start with the basics. We could leave it where it is and do nothing. Okay, so is an option. I'm saying it's the best option, but it is an option. We could look at trying to heat it year round, not enclosed, but heated. That would likely require that we upgrade. The heaters don't appear to be of capacity to heat year round cold. What we would need from that. And there's a cost to it that's pretty substantial because it is not an enclosed pool. There is heat loss. We believe it's somewhere in the 20 to 30 thousand dollars a month based on numbers we've heard from other pool owners. It's certainly something we'd have to look into. And it might take us a little bit of time to kind of come over. We could look at trying to enclose it. And when I say enclosure, I don't mean like a giant building, I mean a fairly basic enclosure. And we're talking the lab pool only to try to minimize the cost cost and really look at focusing on use by students. So the K pole probably doesn't need to be enclosed. A lazy river probably doesn't need to be enclosed for student use. That has a lazy river too. You should go out there, man. In the summer. Yeah, in the summer. Right. Rest of the time it's not either. Right. Not know that. Okay, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. We believe that it's really roughly 10 to $12 million to the cost of the modernization to add an enclosure to the pool, leaving it in its existing location. That does come with an ongoing operations and maintenance costs that we do not want to forget about as well. Right. So go back to the. We have to heat it then year round, we still have to heat it even if it's in an enclosure. We have to run a mechanical system in that enclosure. There's a lot of humidity from pools. So we would then have to pay for those costs. But the other part of it is just the operations and maintenance of it in general. Right now we don't have lifeguards, we don't have pool operators. Those are things that we'd have to figure out. There's a cost for staffing, so we want to be really, you know, sort of transparent about what that means down the road to general fund budgets. Sorry, that would be option C. That's option C. I have a question. So even if it's enclosed, it wouldn't be available for meets because there's no place for people to sit and watch, Right? That's a really good question, Donna. Do you. When we looked at enclosure, was there enough space to. I'm not sure what if there's requirements for that? And we didn't price anything about seating. It was just so that they could swim just Right. So their meats would probably have to be somewhere else anyway. I mean, I think you could assume that if we wanted to do that, we would add cost Right. So we're talking 10 to 12. We're going to add some more on for seating. Bigger enclosure. Yeah, it might increase the cost of a little bit. I know with basketball in the auxiliary gym, you have to have seating for at least 100 people in order for it to be a legal game. So if you don't. If you can't see the 100 people in there in the Ox gym, then you're. I don't care how beautiful your space is, it's not a legal. It's not a legal game. Certainly something we'd have to look. And so, yeah, I don't think swimming that big. I don't know. Marshall, do you know if there's a requirement to have seating for swimming? I don't think there's a requirement. However, our swim meets probably a discipline average two to 300 people because parents come and it's never one team versus another team. There's usually three or four teams competing at the same time. So, like, Lincoln has a hundred, almost 100 kids. Wells has actually a little bit more than 70. Grant has over 70. So if you get two or three of those and their parents come, you got at least have a couple hundred seats if you're trying to have seats. Right. So. Well, if we're going to have a meet, then we got to think about all the people that's going to come. So if we're looking at Lincoln has about. With their meets, about two or three hundred and they have more, then we got to be thinking about a facility that can hold more. So if you're talking about. At that point, we're talking about an aquatic facility. Right. So I mean, just to like, call what it is. Right. It's going to be a competition meet. Yes, it's going to be a competition meeting. So basically what she's saying is that's something that we could talk about in the bond conversation. And it could just be there. It could just be a pool that they could practice in with an enclosure. It could be a PE for pen. So it doesn't have to be something. And we've looked at aquatic facility level. Think 50 and over for cost of that. Is there a chance. Oh, thanks. If it was an aquatic center, you know, best case scenario. I know this is sort of a Parks and Rec thing probably, but, like, is there some way that some of that cost can be mitigated by, like, access to the public and the community? So there's an aquatic center a mile away also. There'd be competition and so. Well, yeah, I Just parks is not going to be interested in. And I think we should. Did you have more? No, I was going to point out the same thing. Yeah. Thank you. But I didn't want to stop your presentation. But before starting conversation. I mean, this is, this is. I'll be honest, this is tough one for me. I grew up swimming in that pool. Right. So there's a. There's a huge community nostalgia for it. And like, I think that came through. Right. In terms of talking to, you know, the business community, talks about the economic impact because they get, you know, hundreds a day during the summertime of folks coming through there. The neighbors see this as a nostalgic thing. So. But. But it's a community asset. It's not a. It's not a school and it always has been. It's always been run by parks, I think, as far as I know. And I remember actually when they redid it, they made it an even nicer pool many, many, many years ago. But this is a tough one because for me, the problem is that we're having the conversation as a school district and as a school district, it's a nice to have. I don't think it ranks higher than the other need to haves. Right. That we've got out there. But then there's the community part of me which says, but I don't think this board for Shank should frankly be making a decision on behalf of the entire Southwest Portland to say we're going to. I noticed taking away the pool was not an option on here. Was that just kind of a political thing to not get people? Yeah, there were a couple options I didn't include. That was one of them because honestly, everything that we heard during the conceptual master planning effort in 2019 was if there would be a massive outcry if we tried to take away what is seen as a community resource. Right. Not to mention our partners from the parks and recreation who own the pool would have a lot to say about that as well. How about if they just move? Can't they just Pay, I mean, $600 million deficit? Well, I'm just saying all the things that we're saying, it seems like we're going to be using our resources to support their mission, like from a recreational standpoint. And even if we are, even if we're saying, well, we're going to get some use out of it, the reality is the majority of the time the use would be public. And I just think of, you know, for 20 years I've been. Is the Buckman Pool still open. Okay. But for 20 years, hearing about the Buckland pool, then it leaked, and we're using our scarce resources to fix the Buckman pool. I just, I think we should be really thoughtful about how we. If we keep it, that we're not subsidizing or somehow minimizing the Ida B. Wells student experience or campus. Because parks happens to have an asset right in the middle of our. Can I. You know, option A is. And this is sort of just basically keeping status quo right where it is. I mean, you know, I have seen. And we've got conceptual designs. The architects have worked all around it. Right. The pool kind of stays where it is, and you move the building over here and the parking lot over here, and the pool just is kind of the fixed thing in the middle. I mean, is that. And I'm also thinking where we are in that design process, if we had to do it all over again, we would say take out the pool. But since we have a new unit with the pool there, is it that big of an issue to keep the pool where it is in the other thing? I'd say, I mean, the idea that it's kind of a dead zone in the middle of the campus, that's absolutely true. As a former student of that school, I never thought of it that way. You just. It's just there, right. And in the summertime when you're younger, you go. And. And in the rest of the year, you just walk around. So. And I'm raising this. I mean, like, it feels to me like there are some ideals here. I mean, I would frankly, I would love to. Right. If that was, you know, just put in a different orientation, but still having that community asset, you know, maybe that's worth, you know, is that 10 to 12 million dollars. But I'm also wondering if option A is the path of least resistance. How much of a problem does it. Cause I. You know, I'm going to let maybe Donna weigh in on this, because I think she can probably speak to the voices that we've heard about the desire to not have this unusable asset. So one way that it's affecting the site is that we want to increase that ability to get north, south on the site and to have those people that are coming from the north, from where the bus stop is at Capitol highway, having that access from that side is important. Same conversations have come up as, you know, with the track and field on the north end. We have made quite a few site plans that keep the pool right there where it is, and they Are all providing the building that we need and the site plan that we need. Everything fits on the site. Ideally it would be great to not have a pool there. And what we've heard recently is that they don't want to. We're going to be building potentially a four story building and they're going to be looking down on this pool and they, you know, and from walking all around it. It's not beautiful year round. It's. It's closed and it, it's something that they wish that they could use but it's the campus and the building would certainly function with it there. And the swim team or pe, they don't use it at all during the year because they did when I went there. So that, I mean it is an option, right? Is that more of a programming thing or curriculum thing versus a accessibility thing? Can't heat it. It's expensive. Yeah. So we would be on the hook for adding the heaters if we want. And style. Yeah. Because we'd have to have a lifeguard and we'd have to have maintenance. And during the summer the city would pick up the tab. They've already let us know that they don't have the money to pick up the tab. But they do it in the summer, don't they? Yes, they do operate it in the summer and they get all the revenue in the summer as well. So during the summer though, they'll pick up the tab as far as like the maintenance. The. Because they get revenue people using everything else. Yeah, they use it because that's when they're used it and they get the money. And they get the money. There's no revenue during the time and they're not using it. So if we had it, there's no revenue for us to, for, for the community to use it when we're, when it's. You can't split that so that, that cost and the money that comes from that can go to pay for keeping the, keeping it heated or like split the money like there's no money coming from it when we use it. Do you all. How about during the summer recommendation of these options? We don't pay for anything else. That's a tough one. I think we're looking for some guidance from the board actually on that. I don't know that we have a recommendation necessarily. There are a lot of different voices advocating for different things. You know, the school is, is, you know, they very much want to have some access to a swim pool there some team and PE can use. You know, parks is very Clear that they're, they've got what they want, they don't want anything else and they certainly don't want any other cost. Hey, I'm inclined to go with option A. So as an east sider, I never had those summer pool access, but I can't. There are outdoor pools on the east side? No, there are, but I'm just saying I never used the Wilson Pool, Preston or Montevilla. I also swim in Montevilla. Pardon? I also swim in Montevilla. A man that was prehorrous heated, it was cold. Because all the times I've been to IDB Wells, I don't even know where the pool is. I mean I've been there a million times for games and everything else, but it's sort of like it's right next to the tracks, but it's raised so you can't see it. Right. Okay. So to my point though, it's. So my preference would be that because I also don't, you know, the thought of hiring lifeguards and everything else. I mean a pool is a very expensive thing to make, maintain and, and use. So I would say leave it as it is, but also have a conversation with parks that when it gets to be the point when it needs major maintenance or to be redo it, they'll move it somewhere else, which at some point time or if they have a bond that they put it on and move it. I'm just curious, did I? Oh, go ahead, go ahead. Oh, I was just curious if there's like a hybrid option between A and B. Like for example, like heaters would just be a one time at least now. Right. One time cost until they break down again. Right. And the maintenance. But like I'm curious if like, because you know, swimming is a winter sport, could we maybe just heat it just in the winter so our students can use it can open to the accidents, get to collect some fees or community usage that kind of COVID the cost and then have it close fall, spring and then, you know, parks and option B just as heated, right? Yeah, it basically is just heating it during the off season. I mean that's what our students are asking for. But there's that is that does have an ongoing operations and maintenance issue. Right, Right. And I don't want to lose sight of that because it's easy enough to say here's our one time bond cost to do this work. And maybe it doesn't seem so, so big in the context of the bond as a whole, but the maintenance cost, the operations cost is huge. In the context of our general fund, do you know how much the maintenance cost is? No. That was one of the things we'd hoped we could track down a little more information, but it would take us a little time. That's why I said we do think that the electricity, like just the. The utility cost of it, we're probably looking at 20 to 30,000amonth. A month? A month is totally counter to our plan. And in order to keep that as efficient as possible, we. The COVID needs to be on it when it is not in use. And then you need to have staff to remove the COVID which is, you know, again, this is part of the. The cost of doing. Sound like the pool portion is really cost prohibitive. If we leave it like it is, then if ever we start feeling wealthy, we could keep. It's there in case you decide on the board. If we're going to want to get at some point. That could happen. No, that. It does. I mean, yeah, it does allow you. We could enclose it 10 years from now. Could he. You know, 15 years from now. Yeah, I think that I, you know, I'll just. Sorry, I didn't mean to cut the line if you were going down the line. No, I was gonna say. I mean, I would. I would probably lean towards option A as well. I mean, I would love option D. But it feels like that we would need someone else like Parks to say, yeah, okay, we'll kick in $10 million to help move this pool to a better location. And they're not going to do that. So I would feel reluctant to put. There is that other pool too. So. Yeah, yeah. Natatorium. Which is a word I only learned like a couple of years ago. The. I think it's an indoor pool, like a gymnasium, auditorium natatorium. So that gets a new word and has to hurry up and find a place to use it. So he can make sure I'm saying watch it over and over. Right, Exactly. See, now I've lost my. They're very expensive. And. And, yeah, I mean, I. I guess the only. The only way I, I would is if, If. If the design team was coming and saying this pool is keeping us from making this campus what it should be and could be, then I would be persuaded. But what I've seen so far, it's not ideal, but it's pretty good. Well, I don't know. I heard. I heard her say that with the pool there, it limits the amount of the track and field. And then we can. That's what I was going to Say, what happens if we just pluck it out? Well, there's an option to move. Keep the. I think the track and field should be north and south. I'm blessing. As they've designed us, they've tried to just stay. Stay very clear of the pool so that someday, if you choose to cover it, that might be an option. It is very close to the track and field, so that. That could be tricky with the covering piece. It's a fairly narrow walkway next to the pool where the retaining wall is. We didn't go into details on researching how that would be solved, but we did talk about that it is possible. And, you know, the designers would definitely like to move. They would like it to go away. It would make their job so much simpler. But because they've designed it so that it can be completely separate, there's also the possibility that if something happens to it 15 years down the road, and we have every indication that it's fine as is the pool. Reports have come back good. And it's got a fair amount of life left. I can't quote exact years, of course, but if they choose. If the city chooses to pull that pool out, we also have options for what we could do in that space, and we've made the design such that it can be flexible. Is the current track next to the pool right now? Yes. Is it interesting? I went on that track, and I've never. Well, so at least it's not okay. All right. Hi. I'm. I'm. I'm leaning towards A as well. I mean, it ain't really nothing we can do with it, but it is could be some potential opportunities. We get the ID Wells community to maybe tell the Park Grill to move it or sell it or something. So the IDB Wells community does not want us to pluck it out. If it was replaced, I'm sure they'd be fine being somewhere else, but then I got to pay for it. All right. So leave it alone. All right. Leave well enough alone. Yeah. Get that money. I'm calling for a. I mean, it's one that hard decision because I. Not as familiar with community as director Scott is, so I kind of. Oh, I'm thinking of definitely A. All right. You guys are direction your judgment, so. All right. Thank you. Yes. Thanks for Cleveland. How much you want to do? I gotta leave in about 20, 25 minutes. Do you want to go to the Bon or you want to go to Cleveland? It's up to you. Because you don't want to leave. Well, I want to be here for as much of the bond conversation as I can. But I care about Cleveland. What would you like to do? All right. He looked at the camera when he said that y'all. He looked at the camera. But I care about Cleveland too. It's going. Everybody gonna say no. Under control. Yeah. So let's go to the bond. Okay, let's jump into bond planning. So materials wise, you should have a board book there as a staff memo. There's also a sample bond options document as well. So we last met, had discussion of bond on January 23rd and noted in the memo some, some of the. The general, not absolute the general takeaways for staff. And we use those takeaways to generate the sample option of the memo. And I'll just note what those were. Pursuing a larger bond principal amount. Not a specific amount but when we looked at the samples before. Pursuing a larger bond. Continuing to prioritize high school modernization projects and other modernization projects. Allocating significant funds to address existing facility conditions. Proceeding with plan technology improvements and also retaining the existing levy rate at least for now. The sample option that is there we went from four down to one. So this is sort of the straw man or hoping to just make shifts from. This includes the modernization work Jefferson, Cleveland, Wells, Tubman and the learning Lab. A significant amount for maintenance, deferred maintenance and capital renewal between a $400 million. The the technology improvements took a little bit of a haircut but most of them are in and there's some some further explanation in the memo about those and two high priority instruction scopes of our covered play structures and some funds for curriculum. We're still developing more of that curriculum what that need is. So all the numbers are very much subject to change and will change but that the curriculum is really a plug number until we get some some more information. Total about 1.8 billion. That's big. Our financial advisors Piper Sandler have modeled a couple of financing options which aren't in the pack. We just got those yesterday. So let's give kind of a a quick overview. Well the upshot of those is using that 250 levy rate and just applying all of the debt for when the sale of bonds under the 250 that looks to be about a 16 year term and have a total interest of roughly 800 million. Where if we looked at an option every eight years we step down the levy rate similar to what we've done in the past. That's a much longer term. Extending all the way about 28 years and having a total interest of almost as much as the principal amount. So almost $1.8 billion. And we'll get you that documentation so you can get in that in more detail. Coupled with the current bond funds that we have at 1.8 billion. If we went forward with this package and the bond of course is successful, we would be starting off 2025 with about 2.5 billion in available capital. Completing 2.5 billion of work will take a very long time. That will take over a decade to complete all of that work. So just, just something to keep in mind. We will have to carefully prioritize in sequences where we can't. It's not feasible to complete all at once. So goals for today. Want to just discuss the materials and answer any questions that you may have and, and take feedback on the sample options on the. On the financing or financing questions that you might have. Because we really want to move to the next phase which is with the scope that we believe will be in the bond. We want to further define that scope and further define that cost estimates. We want to start completing detailed schedules for the work. So you can see if this is 10, 12, maybe 14 years what that might look like and how we might prioritize that work. Again, we can't do it all at once. We want to proceed into our community engagement and getting feedback on the potential scopes of work with our community. And also we need to review our cost estimating with the Bond Accountability Committee. So we need a good sense of what that scope is so we can get more detailed. And the Bond Accountability Committee came on behind on that as well. So I'll stop there. I don't know. I'll look at my colleagues. If there's anything else I missed, we want to add and then open it up to questions or comments. So I just had a question. So I'm looking at the cost range. This is on that second one. I see one side is 700 million, one side is 1 billion. Is there. I don't. Can you help me understand what's the. You look at this one here. Yeah. And you look at the top. So what that is that 700 million is for the deferred maintenance backlog. And so we just showed a range. And so the 700 million is the estimate to move the. So the districts overall we look at all the buildings Facility condition index such it's an equation but it puts the district categories as owners facilities. PPS's overall facility average is poor. And for us to move, we estimate to go from poor to fair, we would need to spend $700 million on just deferred maintenance over 10 years. But we're not doing that. That's not what's in the sample. So the step option is what we're looking to use. Okay, gotcha. Correct. The memo speaks to that sample off the far right call. Okay. So I did have a far right count. The far right call. Okay. Because the one you gave us last time made sample. I was having a hard time. I'm just curious something to make it. I'm just curious on why stuff like seismic ADA security, athletics, of course, why is that stuff zeroed out? The sample option has that zeroed out from the feedback was go for a larger bond. We said there's a limit to the size of the bot. Some could argue otherwise. And so what we included were things that were the highest priority. The modernization work, technology work, deferred maintenance, capital renewal. And that in that just the, you know, limited scope, if you will, plus some other things gets to 1.8 billion. And that will take us many, many years just to do that. Oh, this is. Okay, so everybody knows where I'm at with athletic stuff. I, I think it would be absolutely unfair to our kids if we slight our athletics again. It just, it just doesn't make sense that we don't have anything here for them as far as our ADA stuff. Do that put us out of compliance of what we supposed to be doing. So I'm looking at a range of 57, 138. Are we out of compliance in some of those things and do we need money to bring those up to code? So for instance, what I just heard about Grant with the likes we have to have ADA compliance stuff. Would that go in here? So we have a, an ADA transition plan. So phase one is what's being completed with the 2020 bond which is at all sites first level accessibility. Get in to the first floor and move them around for the floor. And there's just more details to that definition. Phases two and three going to look for memory here is multi level. So elevators. This starts to get very expensive. The ranges. I don't. I'd have to look back at the memo but 57 to $138 million was to to get into phases two and then start putting elevators. So if we start adding stuff to these zero out pieces, they have to come from somewhere down somewhere or the total. Yeah, yeah. So I was wondering if I was just missing some other columns like other samples. But this is like the one sample. This is it. Okay. This is just one. The one to Pick apart. Yeah. So, okay, one of the questions. So the ADA numbers last time, and I know there's cost escalation, but I want to say that we did like half of it, which was 33. So. And it. And we're not going to. We're not going to do the high schools because the high schools are all. So it was really, it was really second floors of elementary and middle school. I know there's a lot, but that, that's my understanding what it was down to. So I'm kind of surprised this number is so high, the 30. And you look at the memo. It's in the memo. I still have it memorized and I can't see us. So, like the cost range is so wide for so many of these things. Is that just because you wouldn't do it all or. Correct. And so the memo there, we had memos from January and then we went out to one from February. And it details all of those ranges in those different scopes. So my recall is not as good as Julia's. I don't think nobody recall. I'm just going to say no, no one. But we don't know if she's right because that's why I have to stick around, make it so. Yeah. So in there, I don't, I won't try to read it, but it details out what the. So for each scope, we tried to give something of a menu of options, and that's why you see the range. But we tried to do kind of like a low, medium, high. Some of them didn't make sense to do that, but that's what tried to do. Okay, so for instance, for security, we've got a range from 140 million to 200.5 million. So we can say, oh, we care about security, but we only. Well, yeah, but that's in that sample option. But this is the. This is the money we have to use. This is the 1.8 billion. Yeah, but this is what we should use. This is what we. These are possibilities. No, these are what they're estimating here. No, I don't think that's right. Gary. The ones on the right sample option is just, just one. Austin, they're thinking maybe. Yeah, that's what I'm saying. But this is our financial enterprise. We have to take something else out. I think that's right. It's like. Okay, thanks. Got it. So I believe. I didn't have too many questions. I thought it's a good starting point. My sense is, I mean, from a staff perspective, reading the Memoir, you know, you put the $400 million into sort of critical systems because that's the highest priority. Right. And you know, I, I think it's worth us having the conversation, Gary, that you raised. I, you know, there's a trade off there, right. And you know, when we think about, I know we're all getting emails, but you know, we've got Markham and Gray students displaced for not weeks, but months. Right. Because of buildings that fail, assets that fail. That's what the $400 million goes towards. It won't fix them all, but it goes towards preventing asset failure. Correct. Improving the facility condition is really the goal of that. And I think what's challenging about this conversation, but there's not a right or a wrong answer because our needs on the maintenance front are, you know, huge. Do you estimate this, this billion dollars? I mean, with that. I know you just said this. You've got in the footnote that sort of gets us to deals with all the facility condition assessment efficiencies, right. From 2021. So it does not include capital renewal, which is basically looking forward as future facilities need to be. Right. And we're just, you know, we're not, we have to find this back. In some ways, it's sort of this, the most responsible thing to do is fix what you have before you buy new things. But the other reality is you can't also not buy new things for 20 years. Right. In order to move forward. And so, I mean, Gary, I'm both arguing against it for your point simultaneously, right. On the one hand, driving that fence, it feels Silly to put $100 million into athletics if we're going to have buildings fail and our students displaced. Right. Like, that's a, that's a bad decision. And I will also say we can't just tell the next 20 years of students, you're not going to have any athletic facilities, you're not going to have any buildings, you're not going to have any things. And so it's kind of finding this, like I've said this before, decades of disinvestment in our facilities. We actually have a long term facility plan. We've got a funding mechanism. And I want to come back because we have a question about that. But we also have to have the patience to like to see it through. Right. And now I'll just talk politically. I mean, some of that is also, you know, if every bond we went out for just fixed roofs and plumbing and electrical, we wouldn't have a whole lot of support for those bonds, right? But when you build a new school or a new athletic facility, then people are like, oh, I can get behind that. And then when their school fails, then they're like, I'm never going to vote for another bond. And trust me, I'm getting a lot of those emails of like, I will never vote for another bond because my school failed. And the irony of that is really difficult to explain to people. Right. It's like, no, you have to vote for the new bonds. Schools are going to fail even worse. But it's this challenging sort of dilemma in terms of where we are on a financing question. And I would be interested in seeing what we got from our financial advisors. But. And I think you sort of said this, I think with like a 16 year drop, I mean, essentially, because this is a lot, it's a $1.8 billion principal amount. Finance sounds like over 16 years, we are essentially saying, we Portland Public Schools would not be able to go out for another bond within that 16 year period unless we were wanted to raise the bond rate. And that's always an option to go out and raise the bond rate. But if we're not or if our voters don't want to, this would be it. So we did a bond in 2013, 2017, 2020, and then 2024 and then nothing until 2040. Yeah. And I would say, oh, look at me. On our financial advisors would also say, you don't sell those bonds at once, of course. So you actually do have flexibility downstream. If you're six years in and say I want to go for a bond and let's say in this time I want to go for something specific and it's smaller. You could either refinance or change the way that you sell the future. That you could go out for a bond and say 2030 and it's whatever amount. And so it's not that finite. I think that. So try to just try to be absolute dispersion. Yeah, yeah. And the other thing, because again, I've got my templates, but I, because I also saw, Julia, you put some stuff on the table which looks really interesting. And again, for me that question is always going to be, so what comes off? Like, what's the lower priority? If we include $100 million for athletics, do we reduce the deferred maintenance backlog spending? And then what's that? What's that Risk analysis. And that's what we really need to rely on you, Dan and your team for is just to give us that risk analysis. I think I'm in a unique Seizure in that I've watched us not put anything in athletics for more than 20 years. But I've also seen a decrease in our enrollment. And I would tell you that when I look at the student athletes who are serious about athletics, they're not going to our schools anymore because our facilities are horrible. Now. We, we've improved because we, we've done our schools. But when you go, if the only way we get athletics taken care of is the Grant community coming in here and begging, which will mean, guess who's coming next week. West Silva's coming because they're like, well, they already got the turf, so they coming for something else that we gonna come and then guess who's gonna come after that, right? And so it's like we talk lots of class time, transportation, all those things, and talking. England parents just sent in a complaint about Title 9 because the boys get to walk across the park to park, the girls got to go to the park. That's. You got to basically catch the bus there because it's probably a 30 minute walk, right? We don't own the facilities to do that. But if we don't, if we don't correct those things, softball is going to go away, Cleveland. And then we're going to have a Title 9 issue. Because you have softball, you have baseball and no softball, right? And so I think it's important. Again, I'm. I'm sitting here lobbying for athletics because I'm in that. In that area, but I recognize the importance of athletics to our high schools. And we're getting killed by Jesuit and Central. I mean, wiped out in his facilities. And even though Grant doesn't have a home field, Clinton doesn't have a home field, but they have a phenomenal practice field that they have, right? And then they get to play it. All these fancy places, we don't have those things, right? When I have. When I have Lincoln allegedly winning Hillsborough Stadium because they have nothing in their area to play baseball, right? And because they're doing it, we got to rent something comparable for the girls, right? When if we invested in West Silva, we take care of that for the next 20 years easily. Right. And make things equal across that system. So I think that, that the importance of the athletics dealing with inequity across our systems, whether it's lights, whether it's access, whether it's lots of class time, whether it's been able to retain the kids in our attachment area, is really, really critically important. And again, all the parents will say, can we come to the board meeting? Can we come and make our case and I think, I think it's very complicated. And there, there's the ranges that Dan is showing. That ranges give you 135 for security to 250. Make it 135. We got some security. It'll be okay to get to the next mod because if you don't, you have securability with nobody in it. That's kind of where we're going to be headed. Unless, unless we build an athletic facility that could actually bring in revenue, which we have, we have talked about. But if we created, created a space where we can actually create athletic facilities and spaces that can actually bring in revenue and we know how much money comes into facilities that have athletic spaces. They get to rent out for games and tournaments and all that's millions of dollars every year hand over fist because there's nothing around and we don't have really anything like that in the North Portland area. And yet when we brought it up, when we brought it up, which is one of the things that I want us to start looking at, I want us to look at it from a revenue earning perspective as to where we have the opportunity right now to create something that could bring in millions of dollars every year. Why are we doing it? And I would, I would add to that the, the proposal. What I, what I gave it to Dan that clearly he didn't think it was important. I'm just messing with that. What I've given to Dan does that. Because any turf field, any Turf field is 50 to 100 grand if it's lit, maybe 200 grams. I mean in North Clackamas they don't even have budget for their athletic programs. Their athletic director, Cubs, their building, and that's their budget for the whole year. And they're doing 2 to 300,000 a year just renting their facilities out. Right. So we could do that. It's just a matter of committing to that and looking at. And I think when we originally did the, the turf fields, the plan was we can, we knew we can rent it out with a partner to replace the field. That was our, our intent to do that. So we know we can generate enough money over a 10 year period. We thought it was going to be a million dollars. We thought we can generate $100,000 per fiddle per year to better replace a fit. We could do that if that was a, a priority and we said we wanted to generate revenue. Go ahead. So I just want to get on the table the two concepts that I have a couple questions about the sample option. But I want to get just on the table the two things that I sent around before the meeting and knowing that this is the first of several conversations but I did put together a athletic proposal that would make investments and one of the things I tried to do is address the kind of one offs of the high schools. Like we've learned a lot since the very first ones about what needs to go in them. We have equity so you know we don't have Title 9 issues. We don't have such tight budgets the later ones. But I tried to at its base look at what are the ed specs that we're missing and some of the projects that have already done and how do we address that so we're not. We're not hearing from Herman about what Roosevelt didn't get or what Franklin didn't have. So that. That is the principle. The principle behind that athletics package for example the West Sullivan is the Lincoln baseball. They don't. They don't have anything. It's really bad. Said Lincoln, the one who just got the brand new school. I'm just curious that we're spending. I just this. I'm just. I just seen this. So you talking about. I mean $11 million to build something for their baseball team even though they just got it baseball it's multi purpose and they've got a constrained space so yields so right now for example baseball they did play Hillsborough. Interesting. Hillsborough 500000 for business track. That seems equitable. I'm just saying it's a start. I hear you. I hear you. I would offer. We talk about. Let's start with Roosevelt inequity. So even though we're asking for a stadium we built their school first. They still don't have birth turf Baseball softball. Right. So it sound like we should be doing amendment they still have the worst. The worst bleachers in the history of high school athletics. Right. When we talk about Franklin they were in that second group. They still don't have lights and turf builds up top right. So we talk about equity and also equity equitable access. I mean it's how do we get the most for the most kids to have the most opportunity. And that's what we try to look at. And I think we can always I guess pick one program against another one school against another. But what I would like to see is us make a commitment that says all of our kids are important. We need to do something all of our communities so they all have more access than they currently have and we can look at that that factor there, it's clear the lack of access that kids have. I mean, no one should be having to go to Delta at 3 o'clock in the middle of the school day. No one should have to go to Milwaukee High School and Putnam high school at 11 o'clock because that's the only time we have access to turf fields. Because it's raining in the spring. It's been raining in the spring for 60 years I've been alive. Right? It is, right. So are we ever going to say let's make the investment so we don't have to do those things and all of them important? I actually, when I was going through Dan, I didn't even prioritize them because I couldn't, I couldn't say Roosevelt was more important than Vincent or West Silvan was more important or Franklin was more. Because they're all important. And we, we have money in the first five, I think it was 35 or 50 million and it went from 680 million to 1.3 and we went from 35 to 0. So hold on, let me respond. First of all, I'm just joking about the comparison piece, right? But I, and I've said this from day one. I think once again, if we don't add something in for athletics, you know, it doesn't make sense for us to short our kids on certain things. Yes, we know we'll have to have trade offs. We get it. We had to have trade offs when money came out of athletics before. So if we have had, if we had had trade offs with those at those times for those bonds, then maybe it is time for something to be traded off for athletics on this bond. I will say one more thing and I'm done. And there it is. We have two facilities in our district. Two grant would be almost like two that have full normal athletic fields. That's Wells who has the utopia because they have a, they're gonna have a baseball field and a football field. I mean they're gonna have it all, right? And then we have people that have Vincent that has a track that we can't track meets. That, that's reality, right? So Vincent kids wanted to play baseball, do soccer and all those things. There's really no place for them to do it. The feel they have is not accessible to them. So when we look at the assets that we're talking about, it allows for kids to go to different places to have access to opportunities that we just currently don't have. I just think that's important. So I just got one Question. Julian, can you just for me because I haven't had a chance to go through everything unpack how you came numbers. Yeah. One thing I'm wondering also if we can get this posted. Just I hate having a conversation where just the board is seeing or she's asking can we post them? Yeah, we can post them after the meeting. Yeah, so post after the meeting just so that it conversation about what somebody else hasn't seen. So this is okay. Taking the long range facilities plan. It's also looking at the places where we have gaps with the modernizations that have happened that they didn't get all their the things that are part of the ED specs. So for example the facility and operations committee has had before it for almost two and a half years the west oven proposal. Right. Because that was. The Lincoln doesn't have any baseball or softball capabilities. So it also gives them another field. So this is going through and we heard from the grant community your Roosevelt items are in here. And then there's. Yeah, I'm just curious too. Like for instance we talk about grand lights. You got 500000 but Marina just said it was 2.5. I'm just curious like how do you. Okay, so this is how you come up with these numbers. Okay. This is, this is a ballpark. No, but based off of what? That's what old numbers. I remember seeing that before. It's based on an old number but it's, it's not what Marina said. Also includes the everything else. Right. This, this doesn't say Grant lights and ADA and regrading and everything else. So. Okay, there should be a big draft on here. I just heard 2.5 and I see 500. Like somebody he upset because Vincent is only 500. I'm trying to figure out why how we get these numbers. He needs some new numbers for Benson. Okay, well as I told you before the meeting. Draft. Okay, I get draft. Gotcha. And again the grant lights that's like not including all the other things and the seating is actually you know, 10 million. Then we have to make that that adjustment. But the, the general philosophy is we did high school modernizations without building out the facilities for everyone. So we've, we're even though we're down to the last two, we still have ones at other high schools that we didn't do and we have high schools that are physically constrained by space that whether it's Lincoln or Cleveland that you're never going to get all their athletic facilities on the site. And you know that I would say if you had to. And I don't like saying this because I know how important and what a great thing the middle school programs have been just as a feeder to the high schools. But if you were going to prioritize them, that's new. But it does also complement. Over the last 10 years, UPS has built a middle school sports program which thousands of kids have an opportunity to participate in sports on equal basis. Julia, Even one of the things that does the same there is because of middle school sports, we are displacing some high school. So grant, in the spring it goes. Grant track, middle school track. And there's no time left. If middle school at Beaumont had something, then they could go grant track, grant lacrosse, grant soccer, off season. That's what happens if we get so. And then you. You see in here there's, you know, turf and track replacement funds for Franklin Marshall McDaniel. I mean, that needs to happen. We need a plan for it. Otherwise it just comes out of operating dollars. So a lot of this is to create new facilities for schools, right? Well, it's to finish out the ED specs for schools that either they don't have the actual. So for example, let's say hall park turf. That's Cleveland. Because on the Cleveland campus, there's not space to do anything. So you're using the park. Sorry, would that come in the modernization of Cleveland law? Wouldn't that be a part of that? Well, you know what's happening here? This is a perfect question. Example. So when bonds happen and we have the dags and we say all the things we want, all those things were listed. And then comes the pencil. The value engineering. Right. Value engineering happens, which is. Okay, Those things get cut out. Right. So. Yes, right now I've talked to Eric. Oh, yeah, we want. We want it to be in there. Should be in there. Let's even add softball in the lower part down there. Take the basketball court out, ask the parts to do that, softball would be there. So it's not a Title 9. But the reality upset here, that ain't happening. Just because it hasn't happened for the other seven. It's clear. Unless we say, yes, let's put it in there to make sure that it. We just never done. We've never done that. All I can say is if things aren't in the bond, they're probably not going to happen. So where will we take from. Well, let me just make that point. If. If we don't put it in the bond, it's probably not going to happen. You're talking to the choir here. Where will we take from. Well, I want to. I want to put my other thing on the table first. So the other item I put on the table is. And I send it around, we can post it. They're posted now which is a center for Native Student Excellence. So recently when we had the Albina resolution and I was calling around the board and also some native staff PPS staff members, they're like it's great. And I'm just from board members, like it's great to have a land acknowledgement like in the profit center resolution. But like what are we actually doing? And from some staff and community members that I talked to, we're just going through that like is. Should we. Should we put this in the nonprofit center resolution they brought up the idea of. Currently the district in its board goals is focused on two groups who have not been historically supported in pps, Black and Native students. And they raised the issue of a center for Native Student Excellence. So I put together a two page, just sort of conceptual paper what it might look like. And I think as we saw. Pardon? Yeah, it's part of the second. It's part of the second one. Yeah, it's in the email. I sent it to you right before the Gotcha. But more annoying, this isn't like the first and last meeting, but I wanted to get it on the table because I know once you get a running list. So I would like to have at least on the running list and if decision is made not to do it, that's one thing. But I'd like to add it. Add it in. So. And do we talk with Native American like Maya, have we talked with those folks? Well, no, I think we should. And. And that's just one idea you have. You're putting it in the mix because I immediately back to Joy, I said that now what? We already have way more than we want money for. I mean there's a sensitivity to like okay, you guys obviously land acknowledgments but like what are you actually doing to help our students? And we looked at the graduation rates just the other night and they're among the worst in the district besides black people. Native people are probably the most invisible people in our. In our district. They. I mean they're invisible. So I hear it and I think we need to say it louder and talk about it more. So. So those are my two concepts to add in. And actually one, it's less of a new concept because there is a. There is a line item, but it's Zero. So it's trying to, like, flesh out, like, I mean, because I think about if we do it, if we have it at zero, it won't be zero because we'll get new ones at idb Wells and Cleveland generally. So. Which is really a great thing. Just keep. But otherwise we won't have any funds for athletics for a while. Okay, gotcha. Gotcha. So a question I have, though, about the list. How come we have 20 million for curriculum? Because when we approved the last bond, they said that amount would be enough for all subjects K12, so. But now there's another 20 million in for curriculum. We had a leadership meeting where we. Where maybe not before you see it. And curriculum was zero. And it was. We need some more money for additional adoptions. And so the 20 million is just to represent. I haven't got the detail of what that means yet. I didn't want to show it as zero. The intention is going to be further. So I'm going to really ask a lot of questions if we need more adoptions because we were totally promised. And every time an adoption came to the board, I asked, have we planned this out, that we're going to be able to do what we said, which is all. All subjects K12. And every single time I got the answers like, yes, this fits in the larger budget. So I'm. And we made a big bet on curriculum last summer. And I'm not. You just have to be the first time telling it to. But we made a huge investment and we gave them everything they wanted. And so, like, I can't understand why they're back with another. I think part of it is the. The interplay between the time horizon that this bond may cover and over those, you know, presumably many years, several years. We're not the experts, but you need to get it from the experts. But curriculum has to be updated over time. And so to go two more decades, you're then in the same bowl. So it has to have some capital refreshment, is my understanding. But you need to talk to. Yeah, this is a future, future, future. Well, I'd love to see the map because I know we haven't. We haven't rolled them all out. And I also want to make sure that what we promised voters, I mean, that was like a key talking point. And also with sales points of the board, like, this is a big amount, but we're going to do all subjects. It's an evergreen proposition because curriculum changes and needs to be updated over time again. And this is something Marina and I talked about is like just getting the. As part of the reporting on the bond which is different than from the facilities which we get tons of reporting on but just like the, the curriculum because so that's one issue. Then the other question I had was about some of the like the device refresh. Can we get like more details on that? Just it's a large number. Yeah, well and I'll, I'll say one thing because I'm going to run out of time soon but we do have Dom here and so I think we'll. The hope is we'll play in the next iteration of this meeting whether it be the ethno or something else. And we're pretty today we'll look to bring more of the subject matter experts certainly as I think we're getting more fine tuned on what scope might be in there. But we do have Don here because we thought there might be some questions about technology. Hello, I am here. I have been listening intently. Good evening everybody. I am sorry I am off camera. I am in hotel wireless mode so I think connectivity here is not great. So you get a disembodied voice from me. The refresh is go ahead. Do we have any questions about technology? The 50 million for device refresh. Can you send us so we can see what it is? That sure, if you don't want me to. I'm happy to send that over but was just going to provide a little bit of context of what has happened in the district since the pandemic. This supports both the one to one effort and also the refresh computers and the devices that all of our staff rely upon to do their daily work each and every day they have a lifespan and it's about four years, five years. We try to stretch it too and that that is going to be refreshed and we know with the landscape of where our financing is right now we have taken away any ability for our schools to, to weigh in on that. Their discretionary funds have been very limited in our budgeting and within our our budget crunches that we've been going through and we have set them up coming out of the pandemic with more people having devices and so this again it's a time threshold over this. We're going to have a limited space of time. So it's looking at shifting some of that burden so that we do have devices that actually function and we, we can support within the district but can certainly send a more detailed breakdown over questions. Yeah, I last time we talked the biggest bond was I think 1.2 billion, was it? 2.2. And this time you're saying 1 billion 836 million figurine it would be. And that's a really long bond. I mean, how many years wait, you know, to complete all of that work, including the work that's on the Bludge system? Most likely well over a decade. Over what? Over a decade to complete all of the. And you also said you can't really do it all. We can't do it all at once. So is it better to get a really long bond at it seemed like it was a high interest rate to get that much, or is it better to get a couple of bonds, you know, get one and then get a renewal? Yeah. I think there's probably different opinions on. On how to finance and. And to go for a longer bond or a shorter bond. I think on one side of that coin might be if we go out and the opportunity is there to get a large bond, then you have certainty, you have that and then you plan that work over a longer period of time. That said, the longer you finance out, the higher the. The more interest that you pay, the less your dollar. Each dollar goes. You're paying more towards interest versus your. I don't know. There's a huge amount of interest on that one. There is, yeah. Of interest in the financing options. We'll share. What Piper Sandler has shared with us is there's still options there. So that's another thing. We'll talk about another question. I'm curious. I thought originally it was cheaper to build a whole new school than do the keep the forestry brick facade. What change that. We're adding 50 million. The 50 is still an early number. So the team's going to come back to the board with an updated number. Additional. Yes. In April. And so one represent a number that's here. We're not sure. Right. But wasn't it originally that a new building was cheaper than I think? Yes. There's a couple of things that play here, though. One of them is that the cost estimates that we were receiving on the work, regardless of whether it was new or old, was significant more than what we wanted to be. Right. So our expectations were not accurate to begin with in terms of what that number should be. Beyond that, by pivoting to a different design, we have delayed the construction, which adds escalation to cost. So escalation, when you're talking about percentage increase over a large dollar is substantial. And when do you think we'll have the new numbers? We are going to bring a rough cost estimate April 2nd to the full board. But we're also targeting the March 20th facilities announced 23rd. It's the March. So we'll have that number will be more fleshed out soon. Yes, we're working on that. March 20th. I have one question and I think I wanna. Before I make a statement I wanna at least go back to Dan thinking about something Dan said. Our buildings and with the deferred maintenance and what we're. What we're putting in there for deferred maintenance. Our, our stuff is already in the poor. In a poor setting. And unless we're going to be committing to do the $1 billion then we're still going to be in the poor setting. We're just simply maintaining them so that they're not completely dilapidated and fall down. I would. It's hard to predict the future in building conditions. $400 million is a very significant. Oh yeah. Not to mention the modernizations take care of that work as well. What I would play out a scenario is that $400 million we will need to start looking at schedules. One thing that really helps us with defining some of the scope is to start putting together schedules and cash flows. Right. How do we think these are going to be sequenced and how much do we think we could spend you know on average tackling this deferred maintenance over time? We're not fixing the problem. Yeah, we're not fixing it by no means fixes everything. I think it improves the overall condition. But considering the term of this bond, I think that number that 4 million is going to deplete to zero at some point in time. And that's the district's going to make decision then of do we go out and ask for another bond. So. So but it's hard to predict when that would be. So that's. That was the premise of where I wanted to start my, my next frame of thought because we've got 400 million for something that we know is not going to do a full job and we know that is. And at some point within the life of this bond we're going to probably have to add to it significantly as different things come up. So my question is going back to something Andrew said he's not here so that he can get some credit for it as well. Like to give people where the credit because I don't come up with ideas on my own. I feed off of everyone else. But coming off of what Andrew said there are some things that we could do now that could give us a larger. A larger return on the investment for the people that we're called to serve. And that's why I want to come back to the athletics department because we've got no money allocated for athletics yet. If we start investing some money into athletics, these buildings are going to fall down anyway. And the 400 million that we've got there for these billions, these buildings are not enough to do what needs to be done. However, if we figured out how to invest another 150 million into the athletics of all of our schools and all of our kids, that in turn can substantially change the overall environment of the kids that are actually going to be in our schools. How they feel about their spaces, how they, they're social, emotional. Coming back to the terms that we're liking to use now, the social, emotional well being of the students that we're called to serve by giving them an athletic facility or an athletic space or an athletic opportunity that's something that they can be proud of, then more kids are gonna wanna be a part of that. And if we start watching what big colleges do, they actually invest a lot more money into athletics because athletics draws people to want to be a part of those schools and part of those programs because they want to be a part of a winning, you know, team. That's why March Madness is what it is, which is a shameless plug that the church is doing. The March Madness thing. Five minutes. So all that to say, what does it look like for us? And I'm talking to the. Because I know you're looking for direction, so I'm talking to the committee. What does it look like to us to say the $400 million is not enough already and we could probably get some traction if we put some money into athletics. So how do we feel about adding some money to athletics, understanding that the deferred maintenance is always going to be there. He just told us it's going to be there for the full life of this bond and we're not going to finish it all. But we can change something with. If we add some money. Gotcha. That's my thought. All right, I agree. Yeah. I mean, having taught in public and coming from other districts, when the stark, just very stark reality of 30 seconds. 30 seconds. Right. Is how inaccessible our fields are and it is such a burden on our students. And I mean, at least, I mean, the deferred maintenance thing is also something close to my heart because I see it in the first hand, work in it. But at the same time, it's like we do need to start chipping away at this athletic issue at least start chipping away at it. So I support that idea as well. I do have one really quick question though. Has the situation, you know, the situation at Markham and Gray, is that a different pot of money that's being taking care of that or is are the changes reflected in this? There's no specific for. There's nothing here for Mark McGregor. The majority of that's been covered by insurance. There's others. Okay. Okay. I just want to make sure. Okay. But should we though question. But anyway, this is for another time. Yeah. So I, I, I, I support that idea. Okay. And we know you do. So we're gonna move on to Cleveland. There really ain't no other questions. Oh, okay. Well, so we can be done. All right, let's go. We got Cleveland and we got five minutes. I'm joking. So we decide we are looking to. They got direction. If I get like, what I'm hearing is there needs to be some for athletics and Julie has a proposal table. But we just want to put something. I'm not hearing reducing anything specific. Well, we'll leave that up to you. Yeah. You get the curriculum. I'd like to get a better number on Jeff. I mean, there are some things that we need more information on. And like, from Don's perspective, I guess the same thing is like, are there things that are immediate and things that are. This is it. We're gonna give me a 16 year bond I need in year 12. And if you guys got any other questions, we can make sure you email Dan those questions and we can get the answers too. All right, let's go, Cleveland. Okay, I just clicked the zoom link and it's updating my zoom. Well, while it's updating, I got one more comment. I know athletics is very. There's a lot of support among the public. Like, is there any room to explore? Maybe a. I don't know if it's an increase or another bond or something like that to. I mean, in addition to this. Of course not. Maybe later on. Yeah, later on. Yeah. Anyways, that's what they're saying. I just want to have that on record. Targeted bond later on, possibly. The things that we don't have to worry about Terry sitting over there doing his magic stuff is just happening behind the scenes. We appreciate you. Thanks. Okay, great. Thank you. Good evening. My name is Eric Gerding. I'm the senior project manager with Office of School Modernization for the Cleveland High School Modernization Project. And this is an update on our planning and design efforts. Thank you. Welcome. Good Night. I'm joking. I don't. I'll try to make this quick. Of course, you've already received these slides in your packet before the meeting. Let me get to the next one. So this is just kind of a summary of some of the work that we've been doing over the last couple months. And also meetings coming in the future. Just working with our planning committee, meeting with staff, meeting with students, community design workshops. In addition to some of the targeted efforts, we're reaching out to other smaller community groups within the Cleveland community to get their input and involvement in the process. Currently, the design team is looking at four options. You'll see on the left side, we're calling it the kind of partial existing building option, which retains part of the historic 1929 structure. And then on the right, there are two options, number two and four, that are looking at all new construction, which would mean tearing down all the structures, including the 1929 building. There are multiple structures on the campus that were built at various times over the last hundred years almost, and it's the 1929 building is the portion that has historic significance. So as you can see here, there are some costs related to the different options. Looking at option two on the upper right hand corner. Corner is kind of what we're calling our baseline cost option, which is actually in the realm, you know, of the number that you see on the bond option in front of you and the kind of costs go up depending on the different options. If we're looking at building on just the one kind of four acre block that we have, or building on there and across the street, across 26th Avenue on the existing parking lot there, there is an increase of cost to build on the single lot and keeping the historic building, mainly because of some of the inefficiencies that the historic building has as far as its structure. The overall project would have to just be a bit bigger in order to make up for some of the inefficiencies in the old structure as well as there's. There's more risk of unknown conditions. Of course, working with historic structures, then you know, there's been a lot of interest in what it would take to build part of the program on the parking lot and creating more open space on. On the main campus block. And so that's what options three and four are looking at. One, of course, is still keeping part of the historic building and the other one is all new. And so you can see there that the dollar amounts, as far as additional costs, what those options would be over that Baseline option number two. The other thing that we're faced with in building across the street is that there's some risks to our schedule that would potentially make this a longer construction term versus versus building just on the single block. When you're. You're building two structures at the same time across the street, we won't have construction sort of lay down and logistics areas. So there's additional costs just for the construction effort and. And also just more time required to build the two structures. The other thing that we looked at, we're building on the parking lot. There's been kind of an overwhelming, I guess, sentiment that having a skybridge would be really more or less required or needed in order to provide safe passage during passing time for students to get across 26th Avenue into whatever program space we have across the street. We already know that there are a lot of concerns about safety on Powell and 26th Avenue. And so the skybridge is really what allows that program space to function well and provide that more safety for students. The skybridge does pose some risks as well. It's not an outright approval by the city. The code actually has wording that discourages skybridges and it is also needs to be approved by city council. And so that's where we're seeing there's potential scheduled risk. And just that approval process with that could extend the project a bit. This is a diagram to just show you how much of kind of the existing structures would be tore down and maintaining kind of that C shape of where what would be left of the historic structure, which is approximately half, would be left over after we demolish the other portions of the school in order to build program that we need. These are some slides that talk about open space. And I won't get into too much detail, but the reason why we're focusing on open space is it is the first planning principle that is outlined in the comprehensive ed specs for comprehensive high schools where we're where the planning concept is creating a heart for the school place of gathering something that's like a town square. It's described in the aspects. And so that's a really important factor in trying to plan on such a limited site. And so we've looked at sort of what kind of open space we'd have if we keep the existing building where we have. These are images of say the Grant. There's a turf plaza area at Grant and then kind of the entry plaza in front of Franklin. That's roughly the amount of open space we get with this option, which is keeping the historic building and building on one site. If we go with all new construction, that plaza or heart kind of of the school and an open space expands and we get something close to what the Kellogg Middle School plaza is like at that project. And then of course if we move program across the street to the parking lot, that frees up more space on the campus to organize the building and create that open space and maintaining the historic building, we're still having that roughly the same amount of space that we see at the Kellogg Middle School. So I'll just scroll back up to the all new construction on the one block also has the same amount of space. So you see that the, the, the reason why there's restrictions with the historic building is that it's set back from the sidewalk and that's really kind of a big front yard area of space that we can't utilize kind of in, in the interior of the site. And then of course looking at all new construction and putting building program across the street, that opens it up even more to open space. But as you know, there are cost implications for all of these options as well. If you do that, then there's no parking available at all. So with reduced parking, we have options that look at various levels of what we could do to maintain as much parking as possible. We know it would be reduced. There's about 100 parking spaces when if we don't build on the parking lot, there would be about 50, 55 or so. If we build on the, on the parking lot, we'd have space left over. And then we also have an option where we would have some parking that could tuck under the building because we have a grade change and that does add extra cost. But we're able to get parking up to about 75 to 80 spaces if we do that as well as you know, related to additional cost. So there are various options regarding parking. And so just these are some of the considerations about the project mentioned already. Just some of the challenges with the skybridge and the two site option. The other thing is the additional cost for skybridge, tuck under parking, construction logistics and additional time for construction. You know, those are all additional costs that don't go directly into the instructional teaching space of the building. So that that's kind of on top of what an ed spec high school would need to have. And then options with the partial historic building, again it restricts our flexibility on campus for open space. There's some higher cost and complexity with construction. And so those are some of the things that we're considering right now, so to kind of get more input from the community. Dan, you have a question which is specific to the existing store because it's probably too detailed, but I know where the front entrance is. It's got steep steps right off the sidewalk. I think I know the inch list. But there's no way to make that entrance ADA accessible. Correct. The current entrance of Cleveland is not ADA accessible. And the challenge that we have is once you get in those front doors, you actually add another landing. So you have to either go up or down stairs once you get in. So if we provide an accessible pathway to get to the front door, you can't actually still get into the building. And so we know that we can't reuse the main entrance as it is if we were to maintain the historic building. But we're looking at ways that we could still provide perhaps an alternative entrance, and that could be something different. But it does have some challenges. So one thing that we're working on is wanting to get more input from the general community because we spent a lot of time with our committee group as well as our public workshops, which we don't get. You know, we get good attendance, about 60 people or so come to that. But we're working on a survey that's going to go out to the general Cleveland community to get their thoughts about the historic building and the options that we're looking at. And so we're working on that to go out in the next week or so, and that'll hopefully bring in more community input into our process. All right, thank you. Any questions, comments, thoughts? This is just on the last workshops, I thought, by the way, they're really well done. Lots of great thinking about Cleveland's future. But your last comment just made me think the Cleveland Commerce Alumni association is really strong at all. I know you're well, and I'm also Cleveland alumni, so I'm tapping into definitely that. That group. And there's. There are various different alumni groups. And so we're going to do our best to get that survey out, you know, to all those groups through Facebook and other. Other ways. So it's not just going through our sort of normal channels. We've got our community engagement consultant that's also helping kind of spread the word on that and get as much input. Any other questions? It's a comment. Even during the survey, I'd say just the one. The meetings I've been to, it seemed like a pretty decent cross section of staff, just regular community members, students. So while the numbers haven't been huge, they have seemed representative of for people that were interested in what design. All right, here the questions, comments, thoughts. And I say that to be courteous, but I'm really trying to get out of here, so it ain't no other questions or comments. I'll save it for a moment. All right. Thank you so much for that. Thank you. And we'll see you next month. All right. Me and adjourn. Thank you.

