start time: 00:10:40.000
end time: 2851:09:10.000
confidence: 0.95
A: All right, shall we get started? Sorry for the delay. We were waiting for people to join online. This public meeting, regular meeting of the Board of education for November 6, 2024 is called to order. All items being considered for this evening are posted on the PPS website under the board and meetings tabs. The meeting is also being streamed live on PPS TV Services website and on Channel 28 and will be replayed throughout the next two weeks. Please check the district website for replay types. Good evening and welcome everyone. Thank you for being here this evening. Before we get started, I'd like to share housekeeping reminders. In order to ensure safety, please keep walkways and aisles clear. We also ask you to please be considerate of those around you and keep any signs below level. Additionally, I'd like to emphasize that our primary objective is to engage in the business and service of our children. We want everyone to be examples of being respectful and courteous to each other, including board members, even when we disagree. We are excited to welcome Sharon Tonkre at the dais tonight. Sharon is now serving as the district's interim general counsel. Earlier this year, Liz Large decided to step down from the general counsel role, and she and Sharon have been working on this transition for the past summer, several months. Liz will still be providing contracted legal support for the district, and we are pleased that Sharon is able to assume the important role and welcome Sheridan. National Native American Heritage Month started, I believe, on the first. The first item on tonight's agenda is a resolution to recognize November as National Native American Heritage Month. It's my honor to introduce Jennifer Bertl, a Silet tribal member and a PPS parent who will be singing an honor song. Hi. Thank you. I don't know if I really need this. Use your mom voice. Thank you. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Thank you, Jennifer. That's much appreciated. For those in the audience, you might have noticed our chair is not here tonight. He's not feeling well, but he is joining us virtually. He's here. So is Director Scott. Yeah, just really quickly. I think Jennifer's already left the space. Is it customary to stand during that honor song? Because I just would like my team to just stand and acknowledge for a few seconds so that next time we're in the custom when we invite our guests to our building. So I just want to stand and acknowledge, maybe applaud again. And now we know. And next time we will stand as custom allows. And then Also Vice Chair DePass, did you recognize the nine flags that are representing the federally recognized tribes of Oregon? Yes. So we have The Burns Paiute Tribe, the Confederated Tribes of Coos, Lower Umpqua and Siuslaw, the Coquille Indian Tribe, Kell Creek Band of Umpqua Tribe of Indians, Confederated Tribes of the Grand Ronde, Klamath Tribes, Confederated Tribes of the Silence Indians, Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla Indian Reservation, and Confederated Tribes of Warm Springs Reservation. Thank you. I appreciate it. So these flags represent the rich cultural heritage and diverse tribes of our state, and they tell a story. By displaying these flags, we honor the contributions and experiences of Native Americans who have played a vital role in shaping our community. Later tonight, we will be looking at the district's progress towards our board goals, which explicitly focus on raising academic achievement for our Native students. We know that we have work to do, and we also know that our Native students struggle to have a sense of belonging. The trauma experienced by Native Americans in schools has deeply affected their community identities and culture, which, of course, impacts all of us. So as a result of Senate Bill 13 and ODE, the ODE partnered with nine federally recognized tribes in Oregon to develop the essential understandings of Native Americans in Oregon. This statewide curriculum will address Native American experience in Oregon, including tribal history, tribal sovereignty, culture, treaty rights, government, socioeconomic experiences, and current events. We are implementing this using our culture in the classroom practice, so that lesson comes alive across disciplines. Thank you for being here with us. Thank you. Superintendent Armstrong, do I have a motion and a second to adopt Resolution 6991, resolution proclaiming the celebration of National Native American Heritage, Indian Heritage Month in Portland Public Schools? A motion, A second, A third. Is there any more discussion? I just wanted. I would like to thank the singer, Jennifer. I don't know if she's still here or not, but that was a lovely blessing for us. Thank you. Ms. Bradshaw, is there any public comment? There is. Sorry, wasn't Katherine Hubbard and Kadima Friedlander. Actually, if you can take a seat here. Yes. And there's a microphone there. Yeah, that's okay. Thank you for joining us. So if you'll just state your first name and last names. Spell your last name for us. Karima Freelander. Hello. My name is Karima Freelander. My last name is spelled F, R I E D L, A, N, D E, R. I am a student at Benton Polytechnic High School. Hi, I'm Kathryn Hubbard. I am a parent, but also a graduate of PPS schools. And I am just here. I was asked to come and speak a little bit about, like, you know, schools having the flags and stuff like that. But do you Want to go first or so should I Just tell us what you'd like us to hear? So I guess one of the things is just that, you know, like, it's really very exciting to see all the movement that has been happening, all the progress that's been happening with, like, the acknowledgement of Indigenous peoples and tribal peoples in the Portland metro area. But with that said, there is always, as Indigenous people, and I speak for myself, but coming from the experience of Indigenous person, we feel like there's always kind of been a lot of talk and not a lot of action. And that's like, throughout history and that's been our kind of, like, continuous, like, communal experience. And so for the Indigenous community, the most important thing is to see action happening and to see it, like, on a consistent basis because, like, it's really exciting to see all these things happening with, you know, people like Indigenous Peoples Day and, you know, like, all these things happening. But then at the same time, we have to, like, kind of have a sense of, like, keeping a wall up or keeping, like, a protective measure of saying, like, okay, well, yeah, we hear all this stuff, all these people saying all these things, but then what are we going to see happening? What is the actionable steps that are going to happen that we're going to actually see an impact on our lives, and we're going to actually see an impact on our people? We're going to actually see an impact on all these things that are issues in our community. And so I just wanted to bring that up and make sure that that is always being kept in mind when planning and trying to, like, make progress to address these disparities that plague the Indigenous community and other communities. So many communities that are marginalized, that are historically marginalized and oppressed, you know, like, what are the action steps that you are going to do that each person is going to do? Are you going to take ownership? Is each person going to say, this is. I'm going to learn about the tribal history myself. I'm going to take that on myself and do that. So that's what I feel is an important thing, to take ownership of it. Because it's one thing to read a land acknowledgement. It's one thing to put these flags up, but then what is going to be done? That's a symbol. That's a symbol to show that there were Indigenous peoples here before all of this was here, you know, and the people who ancestrally lived on this land, you know, we're occupying this land, and their sacrifices are the history because of that. So it's good to acknowledge that history. But that being said, what are we doing in an actionable way that's going to try to address some of those sacrifices that were given that were made? So thank you. Thank you for sharing your truth again. My name is Karima. I am in my junior year. This is my eighth year being in PPS District. And in all of my years, this is my first year actually learning something about Native American history. And it was on the Nez Perce wars, and I was born two days, and it wasn't fully accurate on the full history. Like, they just did the bare minimum of just googling it, putting it in there. I have been severely bullied, severely beaten for being native. My brothers have been picked on for having long hair. My friends who are native don't even claim that they're native because they're too scared. And that's in PPS District alone. And that's in. When I was up in Washington. Same thing. And I feel as if we keep saying we're going to change it. We keep saying that we are going to make things right, but then it gets held off. Then it gets, like, weird, oh, sorry, we got to go do something else. And so starting my eighth grade year when we got back from COVID I was like, you know what? I'm gonna make a club. I'm gonna make a club. So that way my people are heard, my people are taught about. And so I may not have a tribe in Oregon. I am Colville, Confederate tribes of Colville. I am Confederate tribes of Coeur d'alene and I am Danana Athabaskan, And I'm proud of it. I am proud that I am native. I am proud that I am half white. I am proud of my whole self. And there are people who won't even claim their native side. There are people who won't even claim if they're, like, mixed. And it sucks. It hurts. Like, if you don't know your true self, you don't know how to, like, be your true self. And with, like, the curriculums not being taught that I was told that we would be taught. Like, I didn't know who Chief Joseph was, and he died on my lands, and he wasn't even my tribe because he was pushed off of his own lands. He had to hide in my people's lands, and he died in my people's lands and was buried in my people's lands. And I learned about him, and they made him sound like a traitor. And to me, that didn't feel good. And so with my clubs that I've made both in middle school and now here at my new school in Benson in my junior year, it's my third year having this club. And each event that I started out having, each time I have another meeting, I get one more person. My very first event that I held at my school was for MMIW missing murdered Indigenous people. Still to this day, nobody knows a lot about it still. No one does issues on it. And I feel as like going to school, I feel that we need to learn more Native history. We need to, like, have a curriculum up until, like, third grade to all the way to senior year. We learn about the nine tribes of Oregon. We learn about current issues that are happening to Natives. Yes, we say that we're going to do it, but it doesn't happen. And for me, it just sucks because I listen and I hear the same, like, history being taught by all these other cultures. Like, we're learning about all these other peoples, which, yes, everyone was oppressed at some point in time. Everyone was at some point in time not doing something right. And I understand that. I acknowledge that. But Natives don't get enough recognition. We don't get our voices heard as much. And part of it is because some people are just. They don't want to claim their native side. They don't want to do anything about their Native side, or some are too prideful to teach their Native history. But for me and for my club, we. We teach it. And we're doing teachers jobs, which is not okay. We get tokenized if we speak up about it, and I don't accept that. And so Ms. Murshee, I contacted her after that crappy history lesson, and I was like, what can we do about this? And so she emailed me back a week later because she was off on her own conference. And she's like, here we're having this board meeting this day. I was like, sweet. And so I was invited here. And I hope that you guys hear this and that we finally get some action going on for not just like, pps, but we start, like, showing other school districts in Oregon what, like, we need to do as a whole, what teachers need to do as a whole. Not just tokenizing whatever minority person is in their class, not just asking them to teach their class for them. My sister, she was in her eighth grade year. She had to teach our history because her history teacher didn't want to. Her history teacher told her, hey, do you want to do this? And she felt like she had to say it. And she had to do it because it isn't a grown adult asking her to do this for them. And in my family, we're taught we gotta do what our elders tell us to do out of respect. And to be honest, I felt like that was just taking advantage of it. That's my part on it. And I'm really glad that we're finally putting up the light flags of our peoples here in Oregon. And like she said, land acknowledgments and flags only get so far. It's putting in the effort of showing that we are still here and we are still people and that we aren't gonna leave. This is our lands first, and we want our lands to be taught about Jina. Lem. Lem, thank you for your time. Thank you, Ms. Freeman. Thank you for your leadership in starting that club. That's really a mark of a fine leader to see a gap and do something about it. The board will now vote on Resolution 6991. Resolution proclaiming the celebration of National Native American Indian Heritage Month in Portland Public Schools. Would Student Representative Kumsevi. Is he supposed to read the proclamation? The resolution reads, the Portland Public Schools Board of education hereby promotes November 1st through November 30th as Native American Indian Heritage Month and encourages staff, students, and community to observe, recognize, and celebrate the culture, heritage, and economic contributions of Native Americans to our organ in the United States through culturally relevant activity and to learn from the past and understand the experiences that have shaped the United States. All in favor, please indicate by yet saying yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. All opposed, please indicate by saying no. Are there any abstentions? Student Representative Kumsevi, please indicate your vote. A strong yes. Strong yes. Thank you. Resolution 6991 is approved by a vote of 72 0, with student representative Kumsaivi unofficially voting yes. We'll now move to the superintendent's report. Superintendent Armstrong, would you like to give your report? Yes. All right. It's November. The slides are coming up. I'm excited to bring this report to you all. And I guess I did have the controls. There we go. So I decided that I'm going to bring a leading and learning piece or article or recommended text for you all each month. And this month is on artificial intelligence. I have the pleasure of being a part of a national council who are looking at not only artificial intelligence, but Generation Alpha, which would be our current 8th graders through those who are still in utero. And it really talks about this generation of learners and how they're showing up. And so it's a really good read because it talks about things that we should think about as a system as you board members for me and my leadership team, as well as teachers and students. And so you all have that in your envelope as a hard copy. And then there's also a link that will be posted to the board agenda for you to be able to access. You know, I will say there's a quote that's pretty popular now from a scholar out of Harvard that said, you know, artificial intelligence won't in place, won't replace humans, but humans who use artificial intelligence will replace those who don't. And so I think it's important for us to continue to grow our capacity to understand what it means to interact and to lead and to teach in this generation. And that it's more than a tool. It's the way that we approach teaching and learning and leading. The second thing that I want to bring you all is, as you know, I like to spend each month sharing a little bit about our first 100, my first 100 days of school plan and each of the priority areas. And so tonight I'm choosing to elevate that. We are in the final stages of the Lifting Literacy Campaign. Yay. Giving. Yes. It launches in January. You'll hear more to come. We're also focusing on and bringing awareness to the fact that Florida, 43% of our students are not reading proficiently. It's important to say that number out loud and to focus on it because we have some work to do. And that as I said before, this Lifting Literacy Campaign is an all city effort that we all have work to do and we're leaning into it. Priority two, building trust and relationships across our city. We've heard from our Benson Tech student and I know that she's not alone in terms of the work that we need to do to hear the stories, to understand the narratives and continue to do work. So I won't read it all to you, but I'm leaning into conversations not only about our budget priorities, but just about what it means to be a student, a community member, a parent or supporter of Portland Public Schools. Right? And then for those who are feeling disconnected, what's coming up for them so that we can begin to understand and then change. And then lastly, as you know, as we had earlier, we have ongoing discussions around bond planning. And it's all about, as you all know, I've been saying this since day one, we need to make sure that every single one of our environments creates safe and Supported learning environments. So I'm going to say a B and an F word. The B word is that bonds should be for buildings. And I am working tirelessly with my team to make sure that every single one of our bond dollars are first focused on our buildings. So that brings up the F word. And when I say buildings, I'm talking about fields, facilities and furniture. And that's what we need to make sure is happening in our schools and that our funds are allocated towards that. So you will begin to hear more of that planning as we work our way through, if you're not already on the committee. And we look forward to sharing more about that as time moves on. As stated, I think you all know, as through the resolution passing, that we are in Native American Heritage Month. And I just wanted to elevate just some numbers of our students and staff that identify or have indicated that they have an identity that is Native. And so that's 2068 students and 353 staff. As we know that students can identify as 100% native or multicultural, biracial, but if Native was selected, then they're in that number. So I just wanted to just bring forth the numbers of those who are represented in our Native communities. So, you know, four years ago, we were introduced to Amanda Gorman. And I think about today being in this moment in November and realizing that we're in a moment and the words being reminded of the work that we're called to do as educators, how it's important for us to show up and choose hope every day. I know that's something I do with my leadership team and what we do as a governance team. And so just the quote, there is always light. If only we're brave enough to see it, if only we're brave enough to be it. I just want to lift up those words in this moment and to say, as always, together we rise. Thank you. Thank you for that. Next, we'll have student representatives report. Student representative Kunstadi, do you have a report for us this evening? I do. Thank you. All right. Good evening, everyone. Sorry I couldn't make it there today, but here's my report. The district Student Council has been hard at work this year. On Monday, we held a retreat where we focused on strengthening our leadership skills, setting goals for the rest of the year and 20 pec. We were unfortunate to have Superintendent Armstrong, Dr. Adams, Chris Bida, the director of CTE, AP and IB, join us for an impactful discussion. If you would like to see photos or videos from that day, feel free to check on the District Student Council Instagram page. During my first Student Representative report, I shared my goal of fully achieving full membership on the dsc. I'm happy to share with you all that we are making great progress. Last month we welcomed four new representatives and I'm confident that by December we'll have full membership on the dsc. I'm looking forward to introducing the whole DSE to the Board and the Superintendent. I'm also excited to begin appointing DSE representatives to board committees soon. We're currently in the onboarding phase and helping DSE reps better understand how functions and responsibilities of the districts so they are prepared and ready to contribute effectively when they join committees. Last week I had the privilege of visiting Evening Scars program at the Benson campus. I spent the entire evening with students and staff. For context, Evening Scars is a credit recovery program that serves all PPS high school students as well as alternative and contracted alternative schools. During my visit it was clear the strong connection between students and staff. The staff go out of their way to establish a person connection with each and every student and create a welcoming environment. However, a concern was shared with me by the Evening Scholar students regarding the lack of adequate food. Many of these students come from all over Portland and go directly from the regular school day to the Evening Scholar program which ends at 8pm the only food they are provided is either a small yogurt, small packet of crackers or cheese. In previous years, these students were provided a full meal. Recently, students from all Evening Scholar campuses filled out a survey to share their concerns with the board and Superintendent. They've expressed concerns with the shift from meals to snacks. Now I would like to share some quotes from that survey. And so here are I'm starving and currently an apple and some chicken jerky is not enough to keep me at full capacity for those hours. It feels very disrespectful, like we are low priority and these meals were served. They stopped giving us proper meals and it makes us very upset because sometimes these are the only meals we have during school day. These concerns reflect the impact of the lack of nourishing meals is having on our students who rely on this program and I want to bring this issue to our attention and I hope to look forward to working with the superintendent to find some solutions on this issue. But thank you and that's all for my Student Rock report. Thank you. Now we have student comment. First, we'll start with student comments. Ms. Bradshaw, do we have any students signed up to comment tonight? We do. We have Steven Rogson, Connor Kesnell Spoons Ness and Teresa Levitt. Shall we go two at a time, one at a time. Just to call the first two Stephen and Connor welcome Stephen and Connor. If you'll just have a seat in front of the mic, you'll have three minutes to make your comments and you'll see the lights flashing when it flashes yellow. When it flashes green, you can speak. Yellow means you have about 30 seconds to wrap up. So if you just state your name and spell your last name. Thank you. Yes please. My name is Stephen Rogerson and I'm a sophomore and go to Cleveland High School. Thank you for hearing about my experiences as a Cleveland baseball and football player. I feel I have unique insight into the resource issues faced by my high school. I was born and have lived in Southeast Portland my whole life. I played under the Cleveland banner as a four year old hitting baseballs for my tee. I have probably spent more time on the baseball field than I have on my dining room table. For me, sports have been foundational, helping me grow stronger, make new friends and develop leadership skills skills and have kept me off my phone Tonight I would like to convince you that sports are more than just a game and worthy of your investment in Cleveland. I'm asking the board to put turf at Powell park in the May 2025 school bond to give Cleveland athletes access to safe and equitable fields. Cleveland is on a very small plot of land on Highway 26 and has little to no athletic facilities, especially baseball. Cleveland's baseball team practices and plays at Pell Park. This is not ideal because we deal with many problems like trash in the dugouts, drugs littered all around the field and multiple break ins to the store shed per year. Even used condoms on the basis. Not to mention each year we have to put up and take down the chain link fence which takes two days of work. Due to these continuing events it has distracted us from practicing because the field simply isn't safe to play on. We currently have one hitting net in our basketball gym that is difficult to use because of the constantly busy gym schedule. Last year we couldn't even afford or we couldn't even get onto a baseball field until a few days before our first game because our field was flooded due to rain. Before we started our season we had a field cleanup day and picked up over a dozen needles out of our stork shed. I'm asking the school board for the same facilities at other Palo schools and to provide more than one turf field because there is only one for all of the Cleveland athletes. That is three blocks away from our school. I would like to thank the board for their thoughtful considerations in this matter and to turf Pell park students at Cleveland are united in this task. Football, soccer, softball, baseball and Lacrosse. And for United students that don't have a safe place to play, I believe that sports can play a central role for the Cleveland student body at large. I believe that we should have equal opportunity to safe, clean in state of the art facilities like our peers at other high schools. Thank you for listening. Thank you. My name is Connor Quinnell. Oh, sorry. My name is Connor Quinnell. Q U E S N E L L thank you for allowing me to speak in front of you guys today. I'm a junior at Cleveland High School and I play soccer for Cleveland High School as well as with the Eastside Timbers competitive soccer program. I've been playing soccer since I was three and contributes a large part to my identity, community and health. Unfortunately, last year on September 18, 2023, I suffered traumatic severe distal tibia fracture through my growth plate at Powell park while playing at soccer practice. This happened during a warm up when my foot was caught in a field divot. As I was running towards the soccer ball, my leg snapped and I knew instantly I had broken my leg and and my season was over. I was in shock but my first thought was to call my varsity coach to let him know I was sorry my hard work to make JV was not going to happen. My mom was called next. As both my parents are doctors of physical therapy, I knew they would know how to take the best care of me. She came with crutches in hand. I could not even stand up due to pain. After being fireman carried off the field, I was taken to the ER at Emanuel Hospital. During the car ride my comments to my mom in my hysterical state were that of my soccer season being over and not knowing if and when I'd be able to play soccer again. At the ER after a nasal dose of fentanyl for pain, it was revealed and confirmed that my leg was broken in two places through my growth plate and that I may need surgery for displaced fractures due to the fact I was still growing. Not only was soccer taken away from me but could have compromised my future growth. My pain turned into anger, frustration and depression. I missed so much school being non weight bearing for eight weeks and got buried behind in academics. I could not hang out with my friends and worse, I could not play soccer. It took me a full year to play soccer again with the help of constant physical therapy that continues today and I was fortunate to have good health insurance and parents that could would do physical therapy on my ankle anytime necessary, saving both time and money. Not everyone may have these resources and would need to seek other options to cover medical care and expenses. I think it's important to tell you that this preventable injury presented me with the greatest setback I've had to face in my life. When I broke my leg, I was really working hard at practice in hopes of making jv. But the reality was the field was unsafe to be playing on, especially if one is trying to simulate normal field play in practice conditions. The field is full of divots and uneven surfaces, but apparently the only field option to play soccer. Over the years, I've had many coaches in my life, including my dad, drill into me. To be in a competitive program with other competitive teams and players, you must practice at full speed in play. These practice fields keep Cleveland at an unfair level of equity compared to the other athletic teams. Cleveland must play in the competition. This disadvantage limits the soccer program's success. I'm sure every other Cleveland athletic sport that must practice on this unsafe field. We deserve equitable fields to compare to the schools we compete with. And we certainly should not have anyone else suffer the horrendous setbacks I have physically and mentally and emotionally suffered. Powell park has every ability to be turned into a safe practice field right now. Why wait for more injuries when a change could happen? Now let's create equal access and opportunities for our athletes too. Thank you for your time. Thank you. We have two other students. Yes, Spoon sness. It may be Waverly who is going to read a statement for Spoons and Theresa Levitt. Welcome. Would you want to state your first name and last name and spell your last name please? And you'll be allowed three minutes, so to speak. My name is Waverly Brooks. B R O O K S and I'm speaking for Ronnie Nees. R O N N I E N E E S hi, I'm Waver the books and I'm speaking on behalf of Ronnie. I am here today because night school students are not getting fed and we are not getting the resources or nutrients we need. This has always been a constant issue with PPs and schooling in general and we'd like to bring this forth. How are students expected to learn when we are not being fed at night school? Food gives us energy. We will be exhausted without the energy we need to do anything. We need a proper solution for this for us to be able to function. A student who is not getting proper nutrients is not getting proper grades as become Cs and Cs become Fs. Some kids come to school well fed and ready to learn. Many do not have that privilege. Sometimes all you have to look forward to is yogurt and a banana and that does not fill you scraps to survive given by a school system that is not helping us thrive. How are we meant to do a class we shouldn't have to do in the first place in a different place than our school? Outside of the school day, without fuel, over 31 million children in America rely on the free lunch program. We have 44,000 students in 81 schools. Do the math. We have 900 students at night school not getting fed. Let's be honest with ourselves. Portland is not an easy place to live in. While we are lucky and have a lot of privilege just to live here, a lot of this area is low income. Most families are living to survive. Especially with the wage gap increasing and increasing each year. Rent is meant to be a third of people's paychecks and yet it's taking up most if not all of it. How are we meant to feed ourselves, feed our children if the state, the district, the govern are not providing that money, those resources we need a revolution. New times have come and Portland Public Schools must be a part of it. BPS has always claimed to support low income families, said that they could be leaned on for support, donating clothes and holding little charity drives. We need to focus on the students here now, the students who rely on night school, on pps, on school systems in general to get what they need to live. Personally, as a child I always relied on school to be fed, relied on it for anything extra I got. School is the closest thing I had to a home, a safe haven, always has been. I'm in night school due to a disability. I barely thrive as is. How am I meant to work in an environment where my needs are not supported? How am I meant to do work when I'm lacking what I need? As I end my statement, I ask PPS to do what it has always done. Support students in need and provide resources like you always have. By the way, you have packets with information from our school available if you'd like to take a look. Thank you. Good evening. My name is Teresa Levitt Leavitt and I'm a student at Franklin, also enrolled in Evening Scholars. I'm here today to vocalize my concerns surrounding the nutritional options provided at Evening Scholars. On the official website of the state of Oregon, the after school snack service we are discussing Today is defined as a federally assisted snack service that fills the afternoon hunger gap for school children. Portland Public Schools Board policy titled Student Wellness through Nutrition, Physical Education, Physical Activity and School Based Activities states that the link between nutrition, physical education and academic achievement is strong and that poor nutrition and hunger interfere with cognitive function. At a glance, our after school programs may appear to be fulfilling their duty of preventing students hunger as they offer snacks free of charge, but the snacks provided barely even meet the minimum requirements of quantity. As you can see if you refer to the supplemental images we provided of the entirety of the meals that we we are given in a three hour period. Students may be supplied with only an uncrustable peanut butter and jelly sandwich which ostensibly serves as two of the five required components of a snack which is fruit and grain. But these sandwiches weigh 76 grams and the required amount of the fruit portion is 3/4 of a cup or 94. It doesn't take an expert to understand that this is not enough food. As you may know, the Oregon Department of Education and the United States Department of Agriculture requires food categorized as lunch or supper to include all five of the meal components which Evening Scholars was qualified to receive last year. Supper is afforded to or was afforded to students participating in programs such as At Risk after school Care Centers or Outside School Hours care Centers. However, Oregon is now requiring different financial management practices for program funding because Evening Scholars is an after school program and not a daytime program which led to Evening Scholars supper service being reduced to a snack service, a decision that is very difficult to understand without knowing all the details. None of the staff at Evening Scholars understand or can explain this decision even after hours of discussion. But if it is because of the distinction being made between after school and daytime programs, As a student who witnesses economic and racial disparities play out firsthand every day and shape the lives of my fellow students, it is deeply disappointing that someone made the decision to categorize programs in a way that that would only supply snack food to a three hour long credit recovery program whose main demographic is the students who already face debilitating institutional oppression. Low income students, Latino students, Black students, even 0.4% of evening scholars attendees are indigenous. I think that this indifference represents a broader issue that is perhaps the reason for these disparities. These regulations seem to ignore the practical effects that they have on students lives and well being and I urge you not to follow suit. Thank you, thank you. Thank you very much. I believe we have one more student. Yes, that's here in person. Talia McKelvie can we get some follow up after the meeting on this particular issue? Yes, absolutely. Thank you. My name is Talia McKelvey, spelled MC K E L V E Y. I'm here today as an Evening Scholars student in our PPS school district. I'm here because I care deeply about the education and well being of the students and staff attending Evening Scholars. I want to support the efforts that will benefit our schools and community. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak and allowing my voice to be heard. Last year I went to Franklin High School for night school. We had way more food options. We didn't have the same thing every single week and we also had vegetarian and meat options. We had a variety of side dishes. This year at Evening Scholars I go to Roosevelt High School and I was shocked to see that we just had an apple and a bag of Chex mix. It almost seems like it's just the cheaper and easier way out. With night school starting at 5pm and regular classes ending at 3.30pm, there's insufficient time to go out the way to get food and be on time to night school. Especially for those relying on public transportation, including myself. Even for those who do have the time, some students do not have the funds to eat out. The last meal many of the students and staff had was at noon, which was our lunchtime. By evening, our hunger sets in, making it challenging for attendees to concentrate on our work and our main focus becomes our empty stomachs. On top of that, we are unable to use doordash or any other food delivery to provide us food due to safety concerns. Portland Public Schools Nutrition Services aims to provide nourishing meals to balance students learning and build lifelong habits. The current situation for Evening Scholars seems to fall short of this mission. The outcome of supplying Roosevelt and other schools impacted with more food for students will ensure that all students have access to nutritious and satisfying meals in the evening will support our academic success and overall well being. Hopefully in the near future we can work together and fix this concern to enhance the nice school experience for all students and staff. Thank you. And thank you to all the students, Brooks, lise, Levitt and McKelvey for your testimony. Everyone up here really appreciates what you have to say. You're the reason we're here and doing the work that we do. I'm sorry Eddie, I didn't see your hand. No worries, I just erased it. I just want to say thank you to all the students that came out and navigated for themselves and for others. As we all know, students that are hungry can't learn. So I would like to ask if we can have a report or later about what the nutrition situation is. Thank you. Thank you. That's noted. Director Brim Edwards also requested follow up on this topic specifically at the end of the meeting. Jj. Yeah. I also want to thank all the students for speaking up because it's really brave of them for doing that, and I think it's really important. I also want to share with the board. I know we received an email from their evening scholar social worker for an opportunity to visit their campus. So if any of you are willing to do that, please do so. Thank you again, students. Your testimony is meaningful, and we'll be following up at the end of the meeting. Okay. Adopting the 2025-26 budget planning calendar is our next item. Do I have a motion and a second to adopt resolution 6992 resolution to adopt the budget calendar for 2526? Motion. Director Hollins moves and Director Green seconds. Is there any board discussion hearing? None. Oh, I'm sorry. Well, they're coming up here for a reason, so. No, I just want to call out. I want to share appreciation for the last meeting we had, the preview of the calendar, and I'd ask the staffing be added, just that the majority of our staffing goes out in February versus before the budget. And I know, especially in the year in which we might have to make cuts, that it's important that we have that conversation at the front end versus at the back end, even though it's not really the back end of the budget process, but it's the back end of the school year. So I appreciate that that's now incorporated in the formal budget calendar. Yes. So to reiterate. And school staffing was added to the revised calendar that you have in your packet. I'm sorry, did you want to. I don't have it in my script, but do you have some comments about the board calendar that we're discussing? Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you, Director Brim Edwards, for the comment. We were just here in case there were questions or a need for any discussion on the part of staff. That's all. Thank you. I think that the only discussion was the comment about the thanks, actually acknowledgement for adding the language that you recommended. The board will now vote on resolution 6992 resolution to adopt the budget calendar for 2526. Please indicate. All in favor, please indicate by saying yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. All opposed, please indicate by saying no. Are there any abstentions Student Representative Kunsevi, please indicate your vote. Yes. Resolution 6992 is approved by a vote of 7 to 0 with student representative Khun Savi unofficially voting yes. Our next item is appointment of Community Budget Review Committee members. Next we have the appointment of three new members to the Budget Community Budget Review Committee. The Community Budget Review Committee, or the CBRC as we call it, reviews, evaluates and makes recommendations to the PPS Board of Directors regarding the Superintendent's proposed budget and any other budgetary issues the CBRC or the Board identify. The CBRC also reviews the allocation and expenditure of local officer levy funds and the committee is typically composed of eight to twelve volunteer members. Appointments by the board for three year terms. The board appoints student members to a one year term. Tonight we are pleased to appoint Mignana bishop for a three year term through June 30, 2027. And we are also pleased to appoint Caitlin Vice and Nathan Hatgu as student representatives for one year terms ending June 30, 2025. Mignana is joining us virtually tonight and I understand that Caitlin is here in person. I don't think I'm alone in expressing gratitude for your willingness to serve on the committee. I appreciate your service. And by the way, we had about 50 people apply for this, so let's thank them too for wanting to do the hard work that's uncompensated but still worthy. Do I have a motion a second to adopt Resolution 6994. Appointment of Community Budget Review Committee members. So move second, we'll give that to Sullivan, Bradworks and Green. Is there any board discussion? And then will Ms. Bishop, we can invite you to say a few words. I'd just like to. I was in part of the interview group and it was just amazing the quality and dedication of people who want to serve on this committee. And it was so hard to choose but I don't know, it just made my heart feel really good that that many people care and want to be part and are just so able so people who weren't chosen. You know, you're wonderful too. It was just really, really hard. Thank you. Thank you for your comments. Did you want to say a few words? Hi. I just wanted to say thank you for the opportunity and I'm excited to to learn more about this position as well as, excuse me, contribute to the best of my ability and supporting the community in the Portland Public School. Thank you. Thank you so much for your service. And then student Caitlin Bice. Did you want to say A few words. Hello, my name is Caitlin Bice. Of course. I am a senior at Benson Tech and I have been on the. Yeah, go Tech. Go Tech. So happy to see all the representation tonight. Makes me very, very happy. The last two years I've been on the district student council. And so this year I'm super excited to continue my work as a student in the district in the community budget Review committee. And I'm super excited to work with my committee and also my fellow student representative. So thank you so much for the opportunity and I hope to help as much as I can. Fantastic. Thank you for your service. Appreciate. I was going to try and jump in. Thank you. Go ahead. And then you kept introducing all these great new members. I was going to also thank everybody for their service and I also want to just call out director Sullivan for the work he did because it's the behind the scenes work that sifting through all those applications and scoring it. So thank you for doing that work on behalf of the board. And I will just say also just for the new members, the work is super important because it adds community voice. It's hard for me not to look out the audience and see director Renee Anderson, who was gave a very memorable speech, delivered the truth. And so I will say, you know, just going into this budget process in which we're going to really have to make some hard choices, that the community's examination of our priorities and the alignment with our priorities is super important. So thanks for the service. Thank you. I can't remember if we voted on this or not. That's retired. I am did. We have not voted. Thank you. So the board will now vote on Resolution 6994. Appointment of Community Budget Review committee members. All in favor, please indicate by saying yes. Yes. Yes. All opposed, please indicate by saying no. And are there any abstentions? Student Kum Savi, please indicate your vote. A strong yes. Another Strong Yes. Resolution 6994 is approved by a vote of 7 to 0 with Student Representative Kunstebi unofficially voting yes. Thank you. Our next item is superintendent evaluation template. The next item is to prove the superintendent's performance evaluation template that you have in your packet. Following our last work session, we've made changes to the performance evaluation template to shift the formal evaluation to spring, which would allow us to have a full cycle of data to see how we're progressing on our board goals. So for the first year we will look at qualitative data and for the 2526 school year, we'll look at both qualitative and quantitative data. We also included a draft calendar that outlines the milestones for the next two years. Thank you so much to Dr. Adams for working with us to come up with the final template. At our last work session, Director Broome Edwards made a suggestion that would include the timeline. That would include in the timeline rather a quarterly check in with the superintendent. You had a suggestion for making a change to the timeline and the suggest. I'm sorry, I just read that the suggestions included a quarterly check in with with the board and the evaluation should be completed and delivered by the first board meeting or work session in June. Do I have a motion and a second to adopt Resolution 6993, the resolution to adopt the superintendent's performance evaluation template for the 24, 25 and 2526 school years. So move second director Holland moves and Director Kareem seconds. Is there any board discussion? Just a clarifying question. I'm looking at the docket and I'm not sure which one we're voting on or which one I'm supposed to be looking at. I'm sorry. I believe we're looking at the top attachment revised. The very top one. Okay. Resolution 6993, Superintendent Evaluation Template, draft consideration, be biased. Okay, just a minute. Let me just. If it's the top one that's not the right one. Hello. Earlier today Chair Wong emailed you the draft which is actually at the bottom of the board book in your view. That's what I thought. So I just make sure that we're mistakes are voting on the same. It's the Resolution 6993 Superintendent Evaluation Template with recommended edits, DuckX, Google Docs. Thank you for that clarification. Just give us a moment to review this. So in this version we have a scoring system at the very bottom. And after each board goal, we have in the Results Area the OSAs and graduation data to be entered in this coming February, which will be the OSAS data that we're getting later tonight. Yes, as the baseline. Yes, as the baseline. Is this the discussion time? Yes. Is there any more discussion? I like it. I'm gonna end up going with it. I do have some. Some other things that again, I want to figure out where these land because we may already have a response for it or may already be doing it, but I just want to like ask publicly because I want to know. As I was writing tonight, this is just what I wrote. So these are just some notes that I took down standardized tests alone. Don't Always tell the whole story. And I think we all understand that. And then by the time we get it, sometimes it's. It's too late, you know, so we're finding out later after the fact that, man, this kid was struggling. But it is the measurement that we're using, so we have that. My question is, is there a way for us to input or add to this different measurement metrics? Like, you know, like their performance tasks, their school grades, interim assessments? Are there just things that I'm just trying to figure out, are there little things that we can do in the middle, in between, so that we can get a better assessment of how our kids are doing in addition to the OSAS data? I'm not saying that we don't use it, but do we have other measurement metrics that we are using to get a better idea of where our kids are at so that we're not finding out too late that Johnny can't read? And that's. I guess that's. At the end of the day, that's what I'm trying to get to. How do we find out sooner that he can, knowing that we have to wait for this OSAS data that we're going to be using that's coming in. But are there other milestones that we can formally put in place so that everybody understands? We're also, in addition to OSAs, we're also looking at this. We're also looking at this. We're also looking at this to give us a whole picture on how this student is doing versus this one moment in time. Does that make sense, like what I'm asking? It does. We've had MAPS data presented in past years, Dr. Adams, that gives us an assessment. It's a pretty good predictive predictor of where students are going. So we're using both. So we're using OSAs and maps. We have used that in the past. I'm just trying to like something so that we can. So it's we know. Right? I guess I'm just trying to get to the not. You know, we. Well, we. Sometimes we do this and sometimes we do that, and then there's no. It's only sometimes that we're doing it. And it's not nothing that's formalized that this is what we do. Then it's up in the wind as to should we do it? Should we not do it? Do we have to do it? Do I care? I don't really have time. It doesn't really matter to me. I'm just going to wait for this. Can we. Is there anything that we can do that we can say intentionally that we're going to, in addition to this, we're going to do this, this, this and this because we want to make sure that by the time we get here, we have taken every necessary precaution to make sure that our kids are on track and that they are reading. Again, this is no, this is. No pun to this. I think that this is great. I'm asking can we or is there something. Because we could already be doing it and I'm just a guy that don't know, you know, I'm not everything. I know what I know. But I do feel that it is imperative that we have mile markers along the way because literacy is important and if our kids can't read, then they're going to act out. Right. I think what I hear you asking for as we have a lagging indicator with osas, what are some of the leading indicators we look at to determine how our students are doing? Y'all see the power of having a space of strong black women that know how to. You see what I'm saying? You see what I'm saying? That's what I'm saying. Yeah. So maybe what I could say. Excuse me. What I can offer at this time is I'm working with Chief Academic Officer Christina Howard to figure out how we might be able to centrally collect the curriculum based assessments because we believe that those are the best indicators because they follow instruction on a periodic basis with an assessment there. We're working on seeing how we might be able to capture that centrally. Right now we can't and don't. I don't have an answer for you at the moment, but I know that there are, there have been quarterly meetings added to the calendar and the performance evaluation calendar. Calendar. And we will, we can certainly follow up with what we can bring at each quarterly meeting with the board. Yeah, if we could, if we could do that. And then if we could put like a date time stamp on it that says that so that it's not open ended that we're going to look into this and then by this date we will have looked into this, found out this, came back and provided a new or provided. Provided some information that's more concrete that says these are some of the leading things we're going to look at. Because what I don't want us to get in, what I don't want to get in the habit of is talking about something and then putting it real come back. But we never say when or something like that. So we put a date, timestamp on it and say that by this date we will come back. And I'm not saying you have to give me that tonight, it can be in an email tomorrow. But if we can put a date on it and so that we can make sure that we're going to close this loop. This is something that, again, as Director Edwards wants to. She's like, I'm going to, I'm going to bring this up. I'm going to bring up literacy and the measurement of it and the metric of it. Every single solitary time we have a meeting, because as a board member, if our kids can't read, if our diploma is not worth anything when they leave our high school system, then we have failed. And so I know that nobody here wants that to be our legacy. And so the only way, the way, I shouldn't say the only way, one of the ways that I believe that we can make sure that this doesn't happen is that we are very intentional about shining the light on it and calling it what it is. Literacy has to be a primary focus, and we have to measure it because the thing that gets measured gets changed. And so I want to look at it, I want to know about it every time. So come up. Know that I'm going to say something about literacy. No matter what you're talking about, I'm going to say something. But how does it help them read? It's just something weird like that. It's going to come out. So thank you for giving me space. I just want to add to that. I think that's something that we talked about the last, the last board meeting. Board meeting before, as far as having monthly monitoring reports, you know, from, for the board. So every month we should be getting some kind of report on how we're doing every month. Right. And that's something that. Right towards our goals. Right. And we can reverse engineer that stuff based on our goals are based on where we should see whether you use the maps or the other. There's other numerous type of assessment things we can use to report that out every month. And we have that information already. So I think we could do something like that where we're getting some academic progress or basic reports every month to move forward. So that way if we see trends or what have you, we can say, oh, not just for us, but staff too. We see this and we can pivot or maybe not pivot. We need to work more on this or we need to enhance this. Yeah, going along with that, I'd really like to see. I don't know how much you can pinpoint it, but if you can see something's really making progress in one school, say if you can say what's happening there, that maybe can be used in other schools. So just can you do that? It's part of the work that Dr. Franco and the senior directors of school lead through the school continuous improvement plans. So right now, principals have been revising their continuous improvement plans based on their OSAS data. They're looking back at how they did last year, where there was some improvement, if there was some improvement, and then facing figuring out what is it that they did. So that's work that the school's team does. Great. I see Director Wong's hand is up. Yeah, just a quick little housekeeping thing. The evaluation that is up for vote is the first one that was on uploading board books. The one that's titled with recommended edits is the one that was submitted some suggestions submitted by a board member that for us to consider. So that is not if we vote yes on this right as is. That's not the one that we are voting on. So if we want those edits to be in the final one, we need to decide that as a board. So I move that the edits in the last document be made to the revised document. I second that. Thank you. And I just want to recognize, Director Hollins, I like that idea of monitoring. And some boards, as you know, do monitor once a month. One of their meetings is focused on student achievement. And I think that would be a good practice for us as well. My question about that is, are we going to be able to notice movements or within a 30 day period, or are we going to be able to see what we'll be looking at every once a month? I appreciate all of these questions and I want to acknowledge that Dr. Adams and I met today to talk about the board's interests and more data and ways in which we may deliver that. So we thought about maybe through the superintendent attendance report, or is that something that we have uploaded as an information item. But we are currently in development of that. And then we have some new resources and some targeted focus on board goals specifically. And so I can imagine bringing monthly data sets that may look different. It may at one moment be on some interim assessments, it might be on some curriculum pieces. It might even be what's happening in the field with some of our culturally specific organizations and other data that we may collect along the way. So I think if you all just give some grace, maybe more than a day. That would be great. And I will respond accordingly with the. Okay, there we go. Just a question, Director Green. Did you mean for just generally you wanted more data or you weren't asking to have it included as part of the evaluation process? Just so we didn't get to the end of the year and be like, oh, no, I'm looking at like this. Like I said, I'm gonna be good with this with the revisions, I'll be good with this with the amendments. What I'm looking for is some intentionality around holistically what we're. This is a superintendent evaluation I'm looking at. I want to get roadmaps on where we're going every step of the way. Like, I, I don't feel like any detail is going to be too small when it comes to the. How our kids are learning, where we're seeing growth, where we're seeing improvement. As long as we're very intentional about we're assessing them. Because what I, what I do believe that every family in our district. District wants is to know that their child, when they get to the respective grade level that they're going to be at, is that they're proficient in that grade level that they under that they not just know, but they also understand, they can comprehend because that's what's going to make a difference. And we don't get that simply by looking at one test at one benchmark. We have to look at the student as a whole in order to make an assessment. So what I'm asking us to do as a district is to be intentional about assessing the student as a whole so that we find out earlier rather than later that this student needs more help or this is working great. We need to do a lot more. We need to do a lot more of this so that we can then in turn take that same information that we're getting and we can make that public facing so that our families can see it. So now our families, families know how their kids are doing. And so we get past this space of. They come to these parent teacher conferences and they say, oh my goodness, little Johnny is amazing. He is such a wonderful student. He's such a joy to have in class. He can't read. Stop telling me that little Johnny is amazing. Tell me Johnny can't read so that we can. I know he was amazing, but he, he struggles in reading or he struggles in math or he struggles in science. And these are the predictors that we've used along the way to show that he's not where he should be. And if we don't do some level of intervention now, he's not going to be where he's supposed to be. And so that's what I'm looking for. I'm looking for the holistic thing that we can provide to a family member to the point to where we should be sending home to parents. Like, five questions you need to ask your teacher when you go to the parent teacher conference. These are the five things that you need to ask so that you can figure out exactly where little Johnny is at and how he's doing academically versus he's just being a good kid. You know, he's great and a joy to be around. I don't care. I want to know Kenny Reed. And so let's, let's give them that information and say he's a good kid. He needs help with this. He's a great kid and he's doing amazing at this. I want us to look at the kid holistically. I feel like these benchmarks that I'm asking for are going to allow us as a community because I do believe we are the village and I believe everybody in here wants the same thing for every child. We want to see every child win. And this is how we're going to do it by making sure that they can read. It's a soapbox. Y'all shouldn't have gave a preacher a moment to speak. I'm gonna turn my mic off. It's a short question, actually, just as a follow on to that. And this is more of a macro sense. We still do have do the maps testing in the fall and the winter. And is that something that we have on our work plan that will come back to the board? Because at least for me, from a broad brush, like, are our students on track? That was a good sort of set of mid year indicators. Sure. As we've done in the past, we typically bring the fall achievement data in December, so next month. And we bring the growth data after the winter term. And we usually have been presenting that, I believe in early April. But yes, it's still in the plan. So that won't give you like down to the individual student, but it will show you directionally whether our students are making progress towards proficiency. We get interim assessment assessments from the state. Like, do we get something? I think we can go into that one with the next topic or two, so we can go ahead and vote on. Clearly you can see I can spend a lot of time clearly you can see I can spend a lot of time Here. So. All right, fair enough. And is your hand still up? I'm sorry. Yeah. Thank you, her Director Green, for sharing that. I like what you said, but I, I kind of want to push back a little bit on, on this calendar issue because one of the things that, you know, as a board, what we're responsible is to hold the superintendent responsible for managing the district. It's not our job to manage the district, it's the superintendent's job. And I'm kind of curious about. My question is, you know, with these edits, I want to also know what best practices are because I think there's a tipping point where, where a superintendent could be spending more time reporting to the board rather than attending to issues around the district. And if we start having our superintendent report to us monthly, I mean, how much of that is actually taking time away from work that our superintendent could be doing elsewhere? I just want to push back a little bit and just have a discussion. I'd rather have a discussion line by line, like why these certain edits were suggested. And then the other point I also want to make is that we also need to think about what is the actionable item that we're trying to get out of this. So if we're having a report every month and we notice some trends here and there, what action do you foresee coming out of that? And I think that needs to be answered first before I would be okay with voting yes on adding more stuff to an evaluation when we don't even know what best practices are or if there's data and other people to inform, like what has worked and what hasn't. Just to clarify, Director Wong, there's nothing in the edits that add a model monthly reporting that was just something that was like a discussion topic, but not a specific add to the evaluation template. Yeah. So the quarterly reports, I mean, I guess my question is is this going to be adding. So I think a standard without a specific outcome that we are, you know, intentionally trying to get out of it, or is it going to be something that is going to be worthwhile? And that. That's the kind of question I want to answer before I can kind of move. So this first. I'm sorry, I didn't mean to interrupt you. I'm done. Go ahead. So there's just two added. And this has always been contemplated since I'll just say 2017, the contracts, that it's an informal opportunity for a check in. So it's a little bit like what Director Green was just talking about. So you don't get to the end of the year, and there's surprises. So it's an informal conversation with the superintendent and the board about, like, what's going well, what are the challenges. And there's just two midway. There's, there's not. And there's. There's not something that she has to produce. And again, the discussion that was just talked about here is not what has been added to the evaluation. So those are the two things. And again, it wasn't contemplated as a formal report or some big thing that needed to be done, but really to just have a check in with as we move through the year before you get to the end point and if there's something that the superintendent needs support on or that needs to be working out, I mean, from my perspective, it's especially important when you have a new superintendent that there's this sort of ongoing opportunity for dialogue and there's two of them. And then the second change that was made is the document originally said May 1, and it wouldn't really make sense. I see the other future years why it would make sense when you're then connecting the quantitative data versus the qualitative data. But if the only thing that this year's evaluation is based on is the qualitative data, it should be go through the end of the school year. So versus being May 1, which is somewhat of a just random date for a qualitative versus a qualitative evaluation versus our future, the future ones, which would be qualitative and quantitative. Thank you. Thank you for preemptively answering my second question. Yeah, I like what I hear. Thank you. That helps a lot. I'm also just curious. My second question was about the reasoning for moving to June instead of May. So I guess that goes to my third question. Should we just keep it at June for. I mean, it's just like how students get graded through the end of the school year. I mean, it makes sense to have it. And having it the first week in June allows the opportunity to wrap up the process. And for this first year, in the first year, and then in the following year when it pulls in the quantitative data, then there'll be a different timing. But it would be like telling students like, you're going to get your final grade on May 1st versus at the end of the school year, I mean, we won't meet through the budget, we won't have been through the bond. So I'm not sure why May 1 was chosen in the first place. So we're looking at this last page right with the green and the pink. Okay. Yes. Yes. I also have a question, too. About. I mean, we're talking about the check ins and the cadence of those check ins. Were you imagining this to be the entire board or just board leadership? The full board. It was just. That was a question that came up for me. And then, is there some way. Do we know what the best practices are in terms of how often makes sense to get a regular check in? If it's quarterly or monthly, Seems like a lot. Well, it's a. It's twice. So it's like an interim. Yeah. At the meeting in Dallas that we went to about best board practices, there were check ins often every month. Yeah. So this is definitely not too much. They have entire teams. My opinion, my humble opinion, they have entire teams that are designed around. Their whole job is to get data, collect data, examine data, review data, then come back and make new sense of the data, and then come back. And so this is. Data is what they live and breathe. It should not be complicated to get me data. I want to see the same data that you're seeing in the community. And the families, they want to see the same data, too. And I want you to be able to show your work like you tell everybody else, show your work, and so show your work. I want to see what's going on. I want to know how my kids are doing, because that's what we're here for. So the idea. The idea that we're saying, you know, it might be a lot to come back with information about our kids is. I pray that that's not worth. I know. I know for a fact that that's not what we're saying. I'm misunderstanding and so charge it to my head and not my heart. But at the end of the day, I want. Somebody's going to need to talk to me about information, and I think somebody needs to talk to the rest of you all about information. And so if I'm the only one that they need to talk to, then tell me and then I'll tell everybody else. And that way they ain't got to talk to everybody. But somebody go talk to me about data. I just know it is what it is. I'm done. Okay. Can we call a vote to maintain the evaluation? Is there. Ms. Bradshaw, is there any public comment? No. So the board will now vote on Resolution 6993. And for housekeeping, are we voting on the original and then the amended? Yes. Okay. So the board will now vote to amend Resolution 6993. That is. Sorry to. This is the very bottom template that has the addition of with edits. All those in favor, please indicate by saying yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. All those opposed, please indicate by saying no. Are there any abstentions? Student Representative Kunstebi, please indicate your vote. Yes. Great. So resolution. I'm sorry. The amended. The resolution to amend resolution 6993 is approved by a vote of 7 to 0. But student representative Kunsavi voting yes. Unofficially, we will now go back. And so we voted to amend. Now we need to vote to. On the amended. Amended Resolution 6993 as the same year. Thank you. The board will now vote on the amended resolution 6993. That's the resolution to adopt the superintendent's performance evaluation template for the 2425 and 2526 school years. All in favor, please and indicate by saying yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. All those opposed, indicate by saying no. And are there any abstentions? Student representative Kumsevi, please indicate your vote. Yes. Great. Resolution 6993 is amended as approved by a vote of 7 to 0. Astute representative unofficially voting yes. Next. We have General Public comment. Ms. Bradshaw, do we have anyone signed up for public comment? Thank you, Dr. Adams. We do. We have Scott. Sorry. Scott Alperin, Elizabeth Super Karanja Cruz, Jan Watt. Can we have call up the first two, please? Okay, well, just two at a time so we don't have to bring additional chairs. There are four chairs. I'm sorry, I'm short. I can't see the chairs. So hopefully only you talk one at a time. Some you'll just state your full name and spell your last name and you'll have three minutes to speak. I've already given the guidelines for public comment, so I don't want to repeat them. But I'll remind people comment that they may not provide testimony about students. But that's not what you're here for. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. My name is Elizabeth. Super. S U P E R. Thank you so much, PPS board members for this opportunity to speak. I'm a parent of a 10th grader at Cleveland, an 8th grader at Selwood Middle School, and I really appreciate all your efforts in bettering Portland public schools for our children and the incredible amount of service that you've provided to the students in Portland. But as a board member, you are sitting on a moment in your legacy. Will you be that board that completes the modernization of all the high schools in Portland, far reaching to each and every student in this city or will you make poor and short sighted decisions to break the trust of parents and not finish modernization of the three remaining schools? I know you'll make the clear choice to vote on a robust bond to modernize Cleveland as was planned and promised and not waste the millions of dollars that have already been spent in the planning and design process. I feel confident as a responsible board you will keep promises to the parents of Southeast Portland to bring us safe and modernize Cleveland High School Safety being at the forefront as you recall from reports of high arsenic and lead contamination levels found in the soil and lead paint found in the peeling of Cleveland auditorium back in 2016. The time is now for the oldest high school in Portland to be modernized. The time is also now to upgrade Cleveland athletic facilities to upgrade for safety and eliminate disparities that Cleveland athletes face. As you heard, Cleveland Cleveland athletes have one turf field and the two students that previously smoked really said it the best. Lack of field space bumps not only the two softball teams in the spring, but freshman soccer teams and varsity football in the fall to Woodstock Park 2.6 miles away and Westmoreland Park 2.4 miles away for practice. There's no reliable transportation to and from school. Students are forced to take TriMet just to practice and for home games, missing more instructional time than other PIL athletes. As you heard, the baseball team practices at Powell Park. At this park there's no hitting facility, no dugout, no scoreboard, no bathroom. There's no handicap access to this field. And despite these challenges, our athletes continue to compete but feel defeated when they visit other PIL schools, schools with these basic facilities and wonder why are we being treated differently because we live in Southeast Portland. We have 32% minority enrollment and 17% economically disadvantaged students at Cleveland per U.S. news and World reports in the last 20 to 23 census. But why has it always just been this way at Cleveland? There is a solution to lack of equitable and safe fields for Cleveland High School. Please work with Portland Parks and Rec for a long term lease of Powell park similar to Grant bowl and Turf Powell park for baseball, soccer, softball and lacrosse and most importantly for mixed use for our unified PE students who have no safe space to play during their PE time. Write the May 2025 board and fund the Turf Pal park, not as an alternate and lift up the neglected and marginalized Cleveland community. Thank you. Good evening. My name is Scott Alperin. That's A L P E R I N. I'm the president of the Cleveland High School Baseball nonprofit board that supports baseball, but also softball at high school and the schools and the programs that feed into Cleveland. And I guess people have really. I want to say thank you very much. It's wonderful to be somewhere where we're seeing government and democracy functioning well. A day. A day. Also, thank you, Dr. Armstrong, for joining the district. Really wonderful to have you. So why are we asking for a new project when there are so many great needs across Portland public schools? I want to give a little bit of a story for myself. My daughter started at Cleveland three and a half years ago, and the very first week of school, she told me that, well, yeah, to get to soccer practices, we're supposed to take two Tri Mat buses to go to this field that I knew was terrible and nonstandard. Now this year, that was the home field for the JV soccer team that my son played on, along with Connor, who, fortunately, his soccer career has gotten going and he's doing well, but he went through a really tough time. My son was at that practice where he got injured. It's just, as a parent, you come into a school, you expect that athletics are going to be part of it, and then you find out crazy stuff like, oh, they have to take two TriMet buses to go to a poorly maintained field that's two and a half miles away. You know, I've been involved in the planning committees for the new high school, for the modernization. I know this is something my kids will never see. They're already at Cleveland, so they'll be gone by the time this happens. But to me, this is just a really important thing for the community, for the future students. And while I can't make that happen overnight while my kids are still going to get to take advantage of it, I think it would be great if we could look into. Can we do something about the athletic facilities? We have a pretty terrible school facility, and the athletics facilities are even worse. It would be great if we could move forward on that before we even get to modernization. So that's our big ask. You know, we understand that budgets are tight and that there are facilities issues for outdoor sports across Portland schools. We've seen that other people are using park spaces as well, and Portland public parks don't maintain them very well anymore. It's not what it was 30 years ago, but feel like the safety, the equity, the access and capacity issues at Cleveland are just so severe that we really hope that you can take action soon. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Albert. And it's important that I briefly Introduce myself. Which will explain the passion that you're going to hear from me this evening. I have served as an educator at Cleveland high school for 56 years. That is five, six. And thank you for that because I have yet to receive my letter of thank you for your service. But that I digress. Yeah, it's coming. And it won't come from Benson. I know that. I can hardly wait to be able to say that to you tonight. My testimony this evening is what I know to be true because I've seen it, I've experienced it, and I've lived it. And I have not regretted one moment of it. I am here tonight to urge this board to do what is right and just in two separate areas. First, do not waver in the decision to modernize Cleveland High School, which I remind you all in 2011 was declared one of only two Portland high schools at that time to be evaluated as in critical need of modernization. Yes, that was 14 years ago. And yes, we're still waiting. And then unbelievably, I'm sitting on my nice couch one evening and I'm attending a board meeting and I am made aware of comments that could indicate a consideration of shift in board commitment to Cleveland High School for modernization. If that is true, that is unfair, inequitable and simply wrong. Please do not forget that Cleveland's athletic field project, a years long endeavor that we undertook as a community, not the district, resulted in new field, turf, new track and lighting not only for our stadium, but thanks to our alums for Roosevelt and Marshall's lighting at their stadium which benefited both the PIL and the city since 2004. So keep in mind, this fundraising that I've just discussed did not rely on PPs or city monies. We made it possible with exceptional community, alumni and business partners generosity. So my plea number one tonight, do not back away from the commitment to include Cleveland in the next bond. We have done more than our share to benefit our district. And now to plea number two on behalf of the Turf Powell park campaign, which is made necessary unfortunately by this district's refusal to acknowledge that Cleveland athletes continue to be victims of benign neglect and basic unfairness. It cannot be disputed that neither the city nor PPS has been willing to show meaningful care or concern that our baseball, softball and at times soccer athletes during all of the 56 years I worked there have just been expected to provide their own transportation back and forth every single day to practice and to game sites. Allow me to share with you that Delta Park, Westmoreland Park, Woodstock Park, Powell park have all been designated our home areas for soccer, baseball and soccer, baseball and softball teams during the times that I've been there. But now, this turf Powell park request gives all of you the opportunity to finally acknowledge these indisputable facts. Powell and Westmoreland parks maintenance is often lacking, so our softball and baseball athletes, coaches and parents have taken on way too much of that responsibility. Cleveland storage and equipment sheds are routinely targets of vandalism and theft for which we receive little to no reimbursement. But most concerning of all to me is that our athletes and students who would like to visit that park have legitimate personal safety concerns about these spaces that are well documented. So I'm asking you to make this right, and I'm asking you to do it now. Commit to working with the city of Portland just like you did for the Grant bowl for an extended lease for Powell park, and then direct the PPS athletic department to move ahead. Now with the turf and improvements at Powell park, it's not a part of your bond, so there is absolutely no reason to delay to do so. If you choose to delay, you will continue to ignore the basic right that our athletes have always been denied. They deserve equitable treatment, a place to play across the street and not miles away from our campus. And on behalf of a 56 year member of this school district, I thank you for your service. You don't have an easy job, but doggone it, that school on Southeast 26th and Powell has been ignored long enough and I just can't stand to see it go any further. Bless you all. Thank you, Ms. Watt. And thank you for your service as well. Do we have the next. Are there two more? There's one more person signed up. Karanja Cruz. Is Karanja Cruz in attendance? I don't think that Mr. Cruz is here and I don't see him online. Would he like to sign into the meeting so he can give his testimony or. Okay. It seems like he's not available right now. Again, thank you for your comments, especially Ms. Watt, and your 56 years of service. That is. That is no joke. That is no joke. And we better make sure we get her her letter. And we need to follow up on getting a letter. I'm a picture outsider personally. I'm going to deliver it to you. Yes, with hopefully some flowers as well. Oh, my gosh. I think a shadow box frame with a letter and that photograph. Oh, my gosh. That is incredible. We now. So thank you again for your comments. We now have comments from our union partners. Do we have any of our union partners in attendance? No. So we'll now move on to the Oregon Statewide Assessment System. I'm aware it's 8 o'clock and I think we might be a bit behind. Yeah. As Dr. Adam comes up to present the data, I want to take this moment to acknowledge that although our achievement continues to be higher than statewide achievement in all grades third through eighth, and while our progress has remained steady, we still have work to do. We are not satisfied until all of our students are proficient or above. So with that, I'd like to turn it over to Dr. Adams, our chief Accountability and Equity Officer. No worries. We also have our Chief of Schools, John Franco, and our Chief Academic Officer, Christina Howard. Just intros. Do we need a stretch break? Well, I'm not sure how long the update's gonna take. My computer's updating right now. Yes, Mr. George, do you want me to give a committee report? Sure. Director Sullivan would like to give an update on. Okay, good. I'll give you time. So the Audit Committee met on Tuesday, October 29th. All of the documents for this meeting are posted in board book should anyone want to check out any of the details of the agenda items mentioned. Things on the agenda were as follows. PPS's internal auditor provided an overview of the Office of Internal Performance Audit that highlighted the Audit Committee's roles and responsibilities in support of the Office of Internal Performance Audit. We also discussed the Audit Committee's work plan for the 202425 school year. PPS's internal auditor provided their annual report and audit plan. PPS's CFO provided a summary of the implementation of current corrective actions taken in response to the financial statement preparation finding included in last year's annual comprehensive financial Report and report on requirements for Federal awards. We also discussed the request for proposal process for the external auditors who perform the audits of the district's annual comprehensive financial report and the report on requirements for federal awards. During this discussion, we realized that the overview of the request for proposal process did not include the participation of the Audit Committee. The association of Local Government Auditors provides best practice guidance that indicates the Audit Committee should participate in the review of proposals and the selection process for this contract. As a result, I have asked our internal auditor to work with PPS's CFO and the purchasing and contracting departments to include the Audit Committee's participation in the review of proposals and the selection process for this contract. I anticipate we will get an update on this process in our next Audit Committee meeting. The Audit Committee's next meeting has been scheduled for December 16th at 6:15. I will provide the Board with a preview of the agenda for that meeting in our Board's regular meeting on December 3. Would other audit Committee members like to add anything to this report? Julia and Eddie were both there too. No, I think that was comprehensive. Is that good enough? Okay, thank you. Thank you for that, Director Sullivan. I appreciate it. We are ready to go. Good evening Directors. Tonight, as mentioned before, we're here to share and discuss our most recent OSAS results as well as progress towards Board goals in third grade reading, fifth grade math and eighth grade readiness. We intend to share a little bit of background on OSAs, highlight PPs as far performance and Board goals associated with OS, and then Dr. Franco, our chief of Schools, and Christina Howard, our Chief Academic Officer, will share some intentional actions that are new and or ongoing to support improved student outcomes. If you can hold questions till the end, that would be awesome. So first, a little background about the Oregon State Assessment System, commonly known as osas is actually a federal requirement. As wanted to remind the public and the Board, it's a federal requirement required by the Every Student Succeeds act. That ACT requires school districts to annually assess proficiency in English language Arts and mathematics in grades three through eight and once in high school in Oregon, they've chosen grade 11 and the assessment really answers the question do students meet the standard for grade level performance during the current school year? In pps, when we share student performance data, we sometimes talk about growth and we sometimes talk about academic achievement or proficiency. Unlike the MAP assessment which can show us that students are growing, even those below grade level, OSAS is a proficiency measure which requires students to demonstrate that they made the grade level performance. So we don't. In this image, only the student to the far right actually gets credit for being at the grade level standard. Our students that are growing and are not quite there yet are not proficient and are noted as such. Last year was a uniquely challenging year in PPS as we faced two different learning interruptions which may have had an impact on student performance. I say may have because we can't be certain of the impact either. The November teacher strike and the January ice storm because we don't have a group of PPS students who did not experience those events. Let's begin by looking at how PPS performed compared to the state of Oregon. On this slide you can see that PPS continues to outperform statewide outcomes by double digits in each grade and subject. While this is good news, comparatively, we are not satisfied with this because the goal is 100% proficiency in all grades and all subjects. I'm going to cut you off real quick because it's a 17 pages. So I want to make sure I don't use my train of thought. So one thing I have a question about is the learning interruptions. If we can't quantify any results based on these interruptions, why do we have it the slide? Can you repeat the question, Director? So you said we can't quantify if the interruptions that we had with the strike and the damage and the storms because we don't have a data set of folks who didn't to be able to compare. Why do we have it on the slide? Because when I read this, I'm making assumptions that some of the learning metrics that we didn't meet is because of these learning interruptions. Sure. Because that may be the case, but we can't prove that. Right. So if we can't prove it, why do we have it on here? Because it makes you assume something that maybe that's not true. Okay. Okay. That was it. Thank you. This next slide shows three year trends in OSAS performance with a noted year over year change in proficiency. In ela, we see slight increases or decreases in more grades, except grade five, where we see a 2.7% decline in grade seven, where we see a 2. 7% increase. In math, we see slight increases. Excuse me, in proficiency, except in grade 4 where performance shifted by 1/10 of a percentage point. This next slide shows overall elementary and middle school ELA achievement by race. Here we see that at the elementary level, most student groups saw a year over year decline, with the exception of Asian students and Latinx students. At the middle grades, we see more mixed results. African American students saw no change in proficiency, Asian and Pacific Islander students showed proficiency decreases and all other student groups demonstrated some level of improvement. Here, when we look at math, we see overall elementary and middle school grades, performance by race as well. At the elementary level, with the exception of Asian and Latinx students, all other racial student groups saw a year over year decrease in proficiency. In the middle grades, Asian and Native students saw decreases in proficiency and all other students showed slight to moderate increases, ranging from 0.5 percentage points to 2 percentage points. Now, let's shift our conversation slightly to talk about progress on the board goals. Three of the board goals for our students are measured by OSAS data. Those as a reminder, as I know you well know, are third grade reading, fifth grade mathematics and eighth grade readiness, which means students must be proficient in Both reading and mathematics. For third grade readings, we see that all students of color made progress and showed increased proficiency. This is the first time that I can recall this happening since the board goals were adopted. As this chart shows, although increases were noted for a number of student groups, only the Asian student group made the amount of progress needed to reach their board goal target. For fifth grade mathematics, we see that the African American and Latinx student groups showed increased performance, while other student groups showed a decrease in proficiency. Here in fifth grade, Latinx students met their board goal target and all other student groups did not. We should note that African American students came within a tenth of a percentage point from meeting their board goal target for fifth grade mathematics. It's very close. Eighth grade readiness, as I mentioned, requires students to be proficient in reading and mathematics. Here we see that year over year, none of the student groups made progress as determined by an increase in proficiency. For 8th grade readiness, none of the student groups made improvements. So no student groups met its board goal target. I hate giving y'all bad news. So that I understand. So that concludes our sharing of the board goal progress. On our next slide, Ms. Howard and Dr. Franco will share district moves, school level moves, and teacher moves that we have or are implementing which are aimed at improving student outcomes. Thanks, Dr. Adams. So we captured here some high leverage pieces that are either new or ongoing. And so I'm just going to go ahead and run through these. And of course, if there are questions that Christine and I can't answer, would be happy to. So first, as you know, we're in the midst of new curriculum. So we are in year 3 of 612 math curriculum implementation. Year 4 of the K5 math curriculum implementation. We are a little bit newer in regards to ela. We are in year two of ELA curriculum implementation. You know, through bargaining last year, we were able to add instructional time. This school year. We know that the state requires a minimum. We know that's not enough. We've always encapsulated more than that and we were even more for this school year. You've heard several times schools referencing school school continuous improvement plans. All schools have submitted what we call skips with distinct alignment to reaching the school board goals. And then our senior directors of schools who are the principal supervisors have provided feedback ensuring that there is alignment there. This current year, we had an investment in academic interventionists. They are charged with working with small groups of students. And we applied the academic interventionists based on map data from last year. So it's based upon what we saw in regards to data. We have instructional coaches. That is something that has been ongoing obviously to assist. We know the impact around instruction improving outcomes. Our instructional coaches assist with that and are very important. We have an expectation with our building leaders that they are to observe informally every single teacher three to five times with specific feedback. And that takes me to this next bullet. This current school year, we have implemented a new informal and formal observation platform that all schools are using. So there's a level of consistency there. And then what the good thing about that, it also provides a dashboard which now we can specifically look at how many observations are being done and then also look at the type of feedback that is being given. We have more time dedicated for professional learning communities. So PLCs. That's when we have groups of teachers that get together to look at student data, but also look at lesson rehearsal and then planning and preparation. Instructional leadership teams we have those are what we call ilts. So we know that the work within the school is not specific to the building leadership there, but encompassing teachers with on those teams to help lead professional learning, but then also to help develop the strategies noted within the school continuous improvement plans. We are also calibrating on domains 2 and 3 of the Charlotte Danielson framework. And so that is what we use here to observe, coach and evaluate teachers. And domains 2 and 3 centered around classroom environment and then instruction. And so all building leaders. This has really been a focus of our professional learning with building leaders. And then also a piece too we have and we've been utilizing collaborative instructional walks across the board. So one of the big pieces, right, is implementation of our curriculum and is it being implemented with fidelity. So we have a goal specifically to visit every single ELA and math classroom. We have a data dashboard which every time we go out, we enter that data within that dashboard or within a tool. And then the dashboard can give us specifically what we are seeing and then what strategies then we could recommend as a group to that principal as part of what we call a PDSA cycle. So that's what I got. We're here to answer any questions that you may have. I just have a technical question on page 10. The years at the bottom. So 2024 is actually the 2324 school year and the spring OSAS data. So that would be. That's the year that we had the strike and the winter weather. So when I look at the data, it actually is the year that we made some pretty significant growth, which seems. That's what I mean. If you look at from 20, the 22 to the 24. It actually in some cases is fairly flat or small decline. But it looks like the year that we had the strike. I'm just. Am I reading that wrong? It looks like. Because what we're measuring is third grade reading. And if you look at the measurement that's at the top here, like the first one is a 5.1. It's measuring from the 2223 school year to the 2324. Yes, correct. It is. Okay. So the year that we had a dip, the year that looks like we had a pretty significant dip, was at least in for Native American, Asian Pacific Islanders and black students. Smaller. It wasn't the year of the strike, it was the year before the strike. Yes. Could that be attributed to a. I think it's been called an implementation dip. It's possible. You do see that. Yeah, I think it could be. I think there's a lot of questions. Well, also, last year was further from COVID So this kids had been in school. Yeah, there's a lot of. There's so many things. I have few questions. So one, I want to kind of get to like accountability. Right. So who's the exact person or position that monitors schools that's continually struggling? So specifically, the principals monitor the teachers. Right. And then the senior directors oversee the principals. I oversee the senior director. So you could say from an accountability perspective, if you were to say one person, it'd be me specifically. Okay, so I guess. So do we have like a system or tiered system where we can know what schools are not doing? Well, we have that. Yeah. Okay. And so if we have a standard of keeping us a pretend responsible for our board goals, how does that translate to those schools? Even if we have a tier system, and if we do have that tier system, what is happening in those specific schools on the high end or on the low end? On the low end, yeah. So they do. They would go through. And this is where senior directors come into play. I will say from a senior director perspective, principal supervisors, they work special specifically with the building leaders. Right. And so. And that's what's great too. There are some system pieces that we have improved throughout the course of the three years at least that I've been here. I mentioned classroom Mosaic. You know, one of the first pieces, like we know how important instruction is to improving student achievement. The piece that was cumbersome was our old system of peoplesop. So in other words, principals could go in to informal observations, that type of thing. But there wasn't a dashboard that could really capture that. Like I'm very focused now from using Classroom Mosaic, we can actually see how many times building leaders are in classrooms. And then we can look at the type of feedback that they're giving. And that's very important. So we could. Because we know how important getting into classrooms is. And I would also say this too. Like we've incorporated, incorporated and I've talked about this piece earlier, the collaborative instructional walks and the expectation of the goal that we will visit every single ELA and math classroom. And then from that we are providing very specific feedback. And what are the actionable steps that they can now incorporate within their school improvement plans? I would say there's no. Principals understand the level of education expectation here and the accountability that's going to be there, but it's. It's a mix of accountability and then also support. And so I would say overarchingly, we are doing a lot better from that vantage point. And so, and when you talk about, I mean, when I first got here, not every school had a school improvement plan. Right. Not every school had a site council. Right. So there's been a collective effort to improve upon that. And I'd also say this too, too, if you look at our school improvement plans, the alignment with the board goals, everything is aligned. And we have an overarching focus on our black and Native students. And those have to be reflected not only in the goals, but in the strategies specifically targeting our Black and Native kids. You feel like you got a question? Yeah, no, I got a bunch of. So when I look at Latinos and black students that show growth and improvement in fifth grade math, can the successful strategies be applied to other student groups? And also what are happening of why they have success in that math group, grade five? Yeah, they absolutely can be applied. You know, we. But what are they. What's happening in that age group to where they are excelling? Yeah. Okay, go ahead. So I would say this too. Like, what we have seen is that the usage and the implementation with fidelity of the curriculum is significant. And so I would say the really good thing that we're seeing now that we haven't seen in the past is that through our collaborative walks, is that people are using the curriculum. Okay, so that's the first piece. Now, you know, this is where we Talked about with PLCs and lesson rehearsal and lesson design, people are still getting into that place. Now they're using it. But now what are those adaptations and adjustments adjusting to the students within the class, specifically, and incorporating that level of planning so that it can then bleed into the classroom. So I would say that piece implementation of the curriculum is. Did you want to add something? I just wanted to add that our fifth grade math students who took the assessment last year. Right. So we're in year four of the fifth of the K5 math adoption, which is the adoption we started with first. So those fifth grade students would have had multiple years of that curriculum too. So this is one of the things that we're looking at is seeing the correlation between the number of years of implementation, the number of years that the teachers are interacting with the curriculum and moving towards from fidelity to integrity, which means they're really understanding that curriculum deeply and implementing it at a high level. And this is where we're hoping to see the correlation between those two things. So one of my wonderings and what I would attribute this to would be that the K5 math adoption was one of our. Was our first adoption when we went through this cycle. Right. And they have those students had the most experience with that adoption. So if school A and B don't meet the board goals, what's the accountability for that? What happens? Because we've been seeing that. And this year, same thing last year, same thing the first year I've been here. So when they're not meeting board goals, what happens? Well, I think it could be a variety of things right now, upwards of accountability in reference to. I mean, there's everything from movement, it could be termination, it could be anything along those lines. I will say this, though, is that we have an outstanding group of leaders who are absolutely in it with this work. There hasn't been anybody who I've experienced here who says, oh my gosh, no, we're not doing that. There hasn't been anybody who said, you know what? I'm not. We are trying and pushing our staffs in terms of the implementation of curriculum. But there is a piece too, right? Like if there's a trend, right. That that is something we have to look very deeply at. I have no doubt that staff feels that they're doing the best that they can. I get that. But when we look at the numbers, our kids are not performing. And so it's one thing to have a passion to do something and it's another thing to have the capability to do something. And so how do we justify or how do we make sure that we have the capable people to do the stuff that they're passionate about? Because at the end of the day, moving so much somewhere doesn't help that kid who didn't get the instruction that they needed. Right. And I will say this. We are positioned with curriculum number one, with instructional. Our instructional framework. Right. Teach professional learning, building leader, professional learning. We are positioned in a place to where we have set the right conditions to show results. Now, as with anybody, me included, Dr. Adams, Christina, I mean, we're all held accountable. Right. And the same thing is what does that look like when you say held accountable? But I can say, well, Herman is held accountable. What does that mean? Well, for him, it could mean not getting reelected. Right. It's the same thing. So what did that look like when. And you're talking about accountability. Well, we're all measured by results. So ultimately, if you want to continue to be a building leader here, I would say you gotta. You gotta produce. Go ahead, somebody. I'll get somebody, some. I gotta. I'm working. Go ahead. And so wondering, I think our eighth grade or goal is the toughest because it's a combination of. Combined of both reading and math. And I'm wondering if you pulled them apart just to look at them, would we see, would we have any insights like, hey, we're doing. Students are doing much better at math, but it's the ALA piece. I mean, I'm just looking at it. Since we set this goal, it's been the one that we've made the least amount of progress with. And, you know, the numbers are just the lowest. And I'm, I guess I'm looking for. Is there some. When they're lumped together, sometimes it's hard to know whether we got to really like, turn it on related to math or it's just both. Yeah, sure, that's a great question. Director Murray Edwards. The eighth grade goal is a high bar. I've also heard the support talk about making sure the diploma means something and students can read, write and do math when they across that stage. And so we certainly do look at grade level performance. And one of the things I've actually also had my team do is find me schools. Because what I've sometimes seen in the data is overall performance may increase, but performance for students of color hasn't really moved. And so what I've been asking my team to do so that I can follow up with Chief Howard and Chief Franco so we can go into schools and understand more is finding those spots where, for example, African American achievement increased year over year. Where are those schools? And let's go figure out what they're doing and understand what that principal and leader has been doing. And the other thing that I would want to say about that 8th grade goal is students who aren't performing on grade level and grade eight haven't probably been performing on grade level for some time. Right. So it's. It is. And I understand that this goal was originally around the graduate portrait and some other things like that that we've moved away from in this iteration of the board goals for our students. And I believe I want to that as we continue to implement curriculum with fidelity and integrity as we continue to provide supports like the academic interventionists who were placed and schools were provided at FTE that had most. That had higher numbers of students who weren't at grade level because who want the academic intervention is working with those students and helping those teachers get those students across the finish line. I have to believe that those investments are going to take root. Appreciate that. And in no way is my question. I very much strongly believe that we should be telling the truth to students and parents on where their students are. And I look at these numbers and we send Most of our 8th graders off to high school. Well, what these numbers show is that the vast majority of the them aren't ready for ninth grade. So I'm supportive of maintaining the current. I think it's the right. It's the right standard. When we send 8th graders to high school we want them to be proficient at 8th grade level and ready for high school. I guess I was more just curious. I think it's along the lines of like trying to look at other places where you're seeing a different trend where actually students are making improvements and it may be masked by the aggregation versus the disaggregation because it's our only goal that we aggregate. That's a great question. I also have a question. It's on slide number 13. Fifth grade mathematics. I understand that column, the second column left is the delta between years 2023 to 2024. But the board target is that. I don't understand what that number is. Is that what we are aiming for? So I know it's important. Sure. So. And then also what the far right column is not met. I'm just trying to look at the trend in the numbers here. I can't understand why Latinx has a positive delta 3.3% but the target's 25.6 and how those relate to one another. Right. Sure. So I certainly could have had this presented a different way. So I want to acknowledge that I could have presented based on the delta and the amount of growth expected in the board goal and it would be a much easier read. And I recognize that. So I want to apologize for creating something that created some cognitive dissonance in a situation where I want to be really clear that's not my intention. The board target is attendance, and our policy requires that board members and when they return, provide reports. So we should begin. We should, by our policy, be adding that to the agenda that board members who are going on board travel should report back. Should report back. So that should be an agenda item. And then we just received the, I guess because of change of staff, the bond audit from last year. And I would like to request either, just given that we're about ready to refer again and we should have an opportunity to have a conversation with the auditor before we have our next referral. And so my request would be either that we have time on an agenda with the bond auditor, or if that's not something that the majority of the board wants to have at a board meeting, that we have an opportunity to have a discussion, an offline discussion with the bond auditor. I've made note, and I think Roseanne has as well. If that's all we have, then I believe we're adjourned. Hey, Michelle, can I have a minute? Yes. Great. Thank you. You get five closes. Yeah, no, I just wanted for a little bit of ending meeting business. No, I just wanted to let the board know and sort of say publicly in a board meeting, I am going to be resigning my board seat come January of 2025. Unfortunately, for personal reasons, I'm no longer a resident of Zone 1. And as a result of that, I need to resign my board seat no later than June 30th of 2025. However, I'm choosing to step aside in January, both for personal reasons, but also because I want to give ample opportunity for people who are interested in serving out the remaining two years of my term to run for that opportunity in May of 2025, the May 2025 election. And then in the meantime, just so you all know, I won't be participating in it, but it is up to the board to decide who would be appointed to fill that time between my resignation in January and the election later in the year. My understanding from talking to PBS council is that there's a public notification process where potential candidates from Zone 1 can express interest, and then the board will need to engage in some sort of selection process to appoint a successor. Again, that's a process you all need to go through, but that's my understanding, and I'm sure council can provide some additional detail to board leadership on. On that. So. But I just want to let folks know that was happening. My, my hope and my remaining time on the board is to help refer the May 2025 bond. I'm. I'm all in. I'm pushing for that and continuing to chair that committee over the next few weeks and really would love to get that referred to the ballot and otherwise support, you know, the superintendent in any way I can over the next couple months as she continues to settle in and leave for Mark of the district. So I do hope we see some significant interest from potential candidates in zone one, and it'll be hopefully a really transparent and good process. Well, thank you. And I know that you reached out earlier to ask for time and I apologize. I am looking at you and thinking about your brevity in our meetings and wanting to adjourn. I appreciate you sharing your. Your thoughts and we'll make the best of your time here. I'm sorry to make us go two minutes longer. We're only an hour and a half late, so an hour and 15 schedule, we're about an hour over. But thank you. Thanks for your patience with me. With that. We're adjourn.
