start time: 00:50:40.000
end time: 4938:33:50.000
confidence: 0.94
A: This public special meeting and board budget work session of the Board of education for May 7, 2024 is called to order. All items being considered this evening are posted on the PPS website under the Board and meetings tabs. This meeting is being streamed live on PPS TV Services website and on Channel 28 and will be replayed throughout the next two weeks. Please check the District website for replay times. Good evening everyone and welcome. Thank you all for being here this evening. Before we get started, I wanted to share a few housekeeping reminders. I see that we have a large and invested crowd this evening. In order to ensure safety, please keep walkways and aisles clear. We also ask you to please be considerate of those around you and and keep any signs below chin level. Additionally, I wanted to emphasize that our primary objective tonight is to engage in the business and service of our children. We want everyone to be examples of being respectful and courteous to each other, including U.S. board members and even when we disagree. I want to be very clear this evening, if we cannot conduct business in this room, what this means is if we hear audience members yelling at the board or board members, if we hear chants or anything that disrupts us from doing the work on behalf of our kids, I will give two warnings. On the third disruption, we will move our meeting to another location. We will broadcast a meeting from that location and that you, the public, will not get to participate. That means we will have no public comments or statements. This action will affect those who came here with the good intentions of participating in this public forum. Thank you. Tonight we have a full agenda. We're going to start with our. We're going to change the agenda a little bit. We want to start with our students teens Constitutional Teams tonight for their victories nationally and statewide. So I'm going to have to jump to this here. So first tonight we're going to recognize several outstanding PPS teams. We will begin with the Grant Constitution Team who was crowned the national champs at the we the People national finalists in Washington D.C. so we're moving them to the front because we understand they need to leave by 6:30. So I'll ask. So there will be a brief ask of their coach, Angela and please forgive me if I mispronounce your last name, Dee Pascal to come Pasquale. All right. To come forward and introduce the team and say a few words about their accomplishments. And then after her we're going to have our Lincoln Constitutional Team and then we're going to have Benson's Battle of the Books team. All right, come on Up. Yes. Yes. Thank you. Sorry I don't have any students with me this evening as they are seniors and off doing a great many things. Yes. Just thank you for recognizing the team at Grant High School. They worked really hard this year. It was a tough year. You know, missing the time that we did with the strike and then the ice storm just presented its own challenges, and they really rose up throughout the year and just brought a sense of camaraderie and academic excellence. Their ability to critically think about complex issues and to talk, you know, two adults in a room so knowledgeably that many adults don't have that skill was really impressive to see. So I'm just really proud of their effort. And thank you, thank you. Thank you. Hold on, hold on. We try to add to your display case a little bit. We want to give you this outstanding achievement. This recognition is presented to Grant Constitution Team as We the People national finalist champions by the Portland Public School Board of education today on May 7, 2020. Thank you so much. Thank you. Once again, round of applause for Grant Constitutional national champs. All right, next, we will continue our recognition with the Lincoln Constitution Team. The Lincoln Constitution Team placed first in the state we the People competition and went on to participate in the national competition where they placed sixth in the country. Please welcome Patrick McGee Jinks and Allison Brody, who will introduce the team. Round of applause. Thank you, Chairman Hollins and board members. My name is Patrick McGee Jenks. I'm a staff member at Lincoln High School. I'm joined here with a couple of my students who I'll let introduce themselves. And before they speak, I just want to give some gratitudes and appreciations for the tremendous community that stands behind our program. We couldn't do this without them, all of our volunteers who coach our students. Allison Brody is one of our volunteer coaches. She is not here this evening, but hats off to her and to all of our parents who support our program as well. And big thanks and support to the Civics Learning Project who sponsor the program and are a tremendous asset to schools everywhere. And big kudos to Angela De Pasquale and the Grant team for all of their hard work and winning that national championship title for the state of Oregon. We'll kind of share in it a little bit if we can. When I was first hired at Lincoln, I had no idea what the we the People program was. And I've been. I've been doing this now for six years, and I wouldn't trade it for anything. It is the. The joy of my. Of my position at Lincoln. I every day I'm inspired by the tenacity, the thoughtfulness and the curiosity of the young people that I work with and who. Some of whom are here to speak for themselves as well. One of the things that I love most about this program is that it prioritizes the common good. And it doesn't just talk about it in abstract or theoretical terms, but the volunteers who make this program what it is that I spoke of really model that. That commitment to the common good. And I'm just very grateful. And I'll turn it over to Natalie and Naomi. Good evening, everyone. Before we start, we want to express our heartfelt gratitude to our teacher, Mr. Patrick McKee Jenks, our incredible. To our school administration for giving the chance to be here today with you all and for. Thank you to you all for hearing us today and allow us to introduce ourselves. We are from the we the People program at Lincoln High School. My name is Naomi. I'm Natalie. And we are from the Lincoln High School 23-24 Constitution Team at Lincoln High School. The Constitution Team is like unlike any other academic program. I've been in a lot of academic programs. Speech and debate, mock trial, model UN this one, it's special. It really is. We as students work together as a team, spending long hours together looking over cases, academic papers and historical events in order to build the strongest arguments possible for competition. People you would never hang out with before come together and they become your closest friends. And some of Portland's best legal experts are coaching us. And for that I'm forever grateful. And the friendships and relationships that we form, both professionally and otherwise, will last lifetimes beyond our competition. Apart from this amazing program, I believe that the connections that are made truly are a testament to the level of impact that this program has made on me. And I, if I can speak for you and you know, through these simulating hearings, there are constitutional questions that allow us to delve deeper than court cases or what one might learn from their typical US History class and really analyze the nitty gritty subjects and even apply it into our daily lives. This has inspired students to take part in in protests, in political campaigns, and to get involved on a real and impactful level. However, there's one challenge that we face. And not every single student gets to participate in this program. Most of us went to West Sylvan Middle School, one of the few middle schools in Portland that offers a We the People program. And it lays the groundwork for civics education not only in middle school, but us going into the Constitution Team. To begin with, I Think it's really important that we allow these programs in our middle schools in order for us to want to learn more about civics education in high school as civics education evolves in our society. We urge you to continue to support we the People programs and expand this across the district. This program has been especially meaningful, I think, for my generation because of the ongoing political polarization that we have today, and especially in a climate that it may feel hard to express one's voice personally, I've learned a lot about debate, discussion and how to make bipartisan compromise. And I believe that I'll be able to bring this into my future career. So I believe that this is one of the best programs and I encourage you to continue to support we the People. Thank you so much. Thank you. Have a good evening. Thank you so much. Hold on. We have. We have actually also. But I'm also going to ask you to say something. The students. Anyway. Yeah, go ahead. Might be a while. No, because I want them to show some of their stuff. So. Okay. You know, you got it. We're a little rusty. I know, but you had it totally down. I know. So my son was a 24 Lincoln team National champion as well. And I wanted to say between Grant and Lincoln, there are more national titles for Oregon than any other state in the country. So, like this is a whole PPS league. And Lincoln was an early. Had the program very early and then Grant added it. And now we have lots of other high schools that have the program. Program well, which is great. And I'll just say that I want to thank you for your work. The adults give so much time to their students. I mean, I was dropping my son off on the weekend to law offices and just like random places for him to study with his unit. And it's actually going back to Washington D.C. and seeing the students perform in one of the U.S. senate hearing rooms where they're asked really, really high hard constitutional questions and they have to like, apply their knowledge. And yes, they have a beginning opening statement which they've practiced, but from then on it's just being quizzed by some of the top lawyers in the country. And it's absolutely mind blowing what our students know. So I'm wondering if you say what unit you were in and like what the focus was and maybe if you have a short riff from your unit and explain what the units are. Okay. So the units are basically small teams inside the team. They usually consist of three to six people and they're like small focus. So for example, unit one is focused on philosophy and ancient Greece and a lot of the philosophy behind the Constitution. But my unit I was on Unit 5 is based around the Bill of Rights. So we have topics spanning from book bannings and the First Amendment to the Second Amendment in New York State Rifle and Pistol Association v. Bruen and how that kind of changed the landscape of what the Second Amendment means. And then our national questions, we had stuff about the death penalty and about affirmative action, despite that not being a Bill of Rights issue. But I was also on unit five, and I think that it was especially meaningful to me to be able to apply legal knowledge to, for example, affirmative action, a policy that definitely impacts high school students and see what are the legal arguments behind certain standpoints. I think it was also just such a great experience to be able to learn from other units. So now I have such a better, more broad, more diverse picture of American history than I think I had way before this. Awesome. Awesome. Thank you for sharing. Thank you. We do have a outstanding achievement certificate to add to your trophy case. This one says recognition is presented to Lincoln Constitution team as the we the People state finals champion by the Portland Public School Board of education on May 7, 2020. All right, last but not least, we are recognizing this year's Oregon Battle of the books State champion for the high school division called Rose City. Readers to Electric Boogaloo. Read hard with a vengeance from Benson High School. Like to welcome the team and their coach, Carl Larson, up to say a few words. Let's go. Tech here wanted to talk a little bit about what an honor and privilege it was to work with this team and just see them really get into reading books. Sometimes too many. Too many. And for those of you who don't know what a rob is, it's where he battled the books. It was started in this year. We went up against some pretty tough teams there and then lely beat it. So a BOP is a combination of reading 12 books, memorizing the title and the author with the exact pronunciation, making sure that that's always to win. And then as well as memorizing obscure facts that each of the books had. And one was what was the bank account, the amount of certain characters. And we have a student here who really did a pretty good job. 4800. Oh, wow, that's loud. $4,856.77. Hi, my name is Zara Faruki. This year I was the speaker for the team. Do you guys want to introduce yourselves? My name is Zed Faruki. My name is Olivia Barziloski. My name is Sarinem Casano. Siran Mejias. This year was our first year together as a team, but not all of our first years during abap. Previously, me and my brother were on a team that also won stadium the state championship beforehand. And OBOB has made a huge impact on our lives. It's, in my opinion, the best nerd sport, and it's one of the most impactful parts of my life. And none of it would have been possible without all the amazing library assistants and librarians like Mr. Larson, who was one of the best coaches I've ever had and every librarian. And I think that just goes to highlight how important libraries and funding libraries are in our district. Because. Because without all that funding, I know I would never have been given this the opportunities that I have. And it's hard to think of a world where other students like me won't be able to do amazing activities like this and show what they can do. Yeah. Thank you. All right, so we have some hardware for you as well. We want to present. The recognition is presented to Benson, Oregon Battle of the Books team as the state champion by the Portland Public Schools or Board of education on May 7, 2024. Bring the trophy. Don't leave the trophy. All right, big round of applause. All right, let's give all the teams another big round of applause. Yes. Next, we will start with recognizing a few of our Provide an update. As you may recall, in February, the school board directed staff to develop a plan and criteria to assess potential locations to move our central office functions so that our building could then be redeveloped into an affordable housing and commercial space by Albina Vision Trust as part of the broader work to return to Lower Albina to the thriving community it once was. We expect to review those criteria. We were expecting to review those criteria at tonight's board meeting. But after reviewing the initial criteria, Benson and Albina Vision Trust agreed that we need to go deeper into these criteria to understand what is needed in a new location or locations. PPS and AlBinaVision will work together on defining these next steps, and we will provide an update timing when we have more information about what is needed. But for now, let's start with recognizing. This week is Teacher and Administration Appreciation week. Interim Superintendent Dr. Huss, would you like to introduce this item? I would be very happy to do that as I'm serving in the role of interim superintendent here in Portland Public School schools. I've been reflecting on how proud I've been throughout my whole career. I started as a teacher, a counselor, and then several other educator positions over the last 47 years. And I never lose my perspective about the solid base that education provides for this great state and this great nation. And that means we have to have solid basis of support for educators. So we join other districts around the country recognizing this week's I believe we should be recognizing teachers every day, but we are definitely going to call them out this week and principals as well, both teachers and school leaders. Since arriving in Portland, it's clear to me that we have a lot of work to do here and across the state and the nation. Being an educator is really hard work. It is a commitment to mission, it is a commitment to students, and it is a commitment to meeting the needs of those students, regardless of what's going on. So when we have disruptive years like we have had for the last two or three or four, it means that it's even more challenging, but it's also very rewarding work. So with that, I'd like us to focus on really celebrating the immeasurable contributions that our wonderful educators and school leaders make. We will be celebrating educators all week on social media channels throughout, nominations by community members, and we'll be letting those leaders and teachers know about real positive shout outs that we have for them. But I'm also hoping that we remember that, like I said earlier, every day of the year and just thank those that contribute to this profession. And with that, Chair Holland, I'll turn it back over to you to talk about the resolution. All right, so do I have a motion and a second to adopt Resolution 6,898? Second, Director Green moves. Director Wong seconds to recognize Teacher Administration Appreciation Week. Is there any board discussion? Well, I would like to just say, and I think I've said this before, you know, I think teachers are one of the backbones of our nation. For me personally, I had a teacher. His name is Mr. Davis. He was my business high school teacher. And he was one of the teachers who inspired me to think outside the box. A time when everyone was doing the same thing. He was one of those teachers who touched me on the shoulder and said, well, you don't have to do the same thing. You can do something different. And questioned what I was doing and had me really think about what I was doing and what I wanted to do with my life in general. So I just wanted to give a shout out to Mr. Davis. He's. I don't know. I know he's not here, but I just want to make sure I gave him a shout out. He Was my teacher from Benson High school. All right, Ms. Powell, is there any public comment? All right. The board will now vote on Resolution 6896 to recognize Teacher and Administrative Appreciation Week of May 6, 2024. 6,898. All in favor, please, by indicating yes. Yes, yes, yes. All right, student Director Silverstein, please indicate your vote. Yes. All right. Resolution 6898 is approved by a voter 70 with student director Silverstein voting yes. You can give that a round of applause for that. Next. Our resolution is to recognize May as Asian American, Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islander Heritage Month. Director Wong, would you like to introduce this resolution? Yeah, but before I introduce, I just want to read a statement I typed out because I make stuff up in my head. I usually say something I regret later. So one of the things about Asian Americans being an Asian American, and I'm going to make a little space here because I think I'm only the second Asian American ever to be on this board. Ever. And one thing. Thank you. One thing. Culturally is very difficult for a lot of cultures. A lot of cultures, not just mine, but mine specifically is. Is making space in public spheres for ourselves. It's something that we have a hard time doing. It is part of our culture to stay quiet or not stay quiet. Don't disrupt the pond. So I wrote this and I want to just be also very clear. Asia is like the largest continent on the planet and the Pacific Ocean is the largest ocean. There are a lot of different cultures that probably more diverse than any, as diverse as they come. So I'm going to try to. One of the things I find best is if we try to make things personal. So I'm going to share a little bit of personal stuff and also related to our history a little bit because I'm an educator and I can't stop. So first of all, I don't know if you know this about me. That's a great way to start a story, by the way. I'm a big movie buff. I don't know if you know about the. There's this thing called the AFI top 100 list. I think I'm on number 62 in terms of movies to watch. I got. I got 38 more to go. And it keeps changing. So I keep. I was at 62, but now I'm at 59, I think. And I've even once considered a career in film production and even taught classes in filmmaking and movie history. So, you know, just knowing where I come from, I appreciate the classics. But as I think Back about the most significant movies in my life. What made the most impact? There's one movie that just keeps coming back, and it's Harold and Kumar Go to White Castle. And you may be asking why. Well, the reason why is because this was probably the first movie that I personally had watched that had Asian Americans as the lead cast. Not only that, but it was also a movie made for mainstream. You know, it was a mainstream blockbuster. And not only that, for me personally, as a young person, one of the Asian leads gets to, you know, succeed romantically. That's never. I mean, maybe one or two of those things may have happened in the past, but never all three in one movie. And that was probably the first time I've ever seen that. So now, that was back in 2004, I think. And we've come a long way since Harold and Kumar, by the way. That movie might not be appropriate for our youngest audiences. So we've come a long way. Yeah. Thank you. Asians and Asian Americans are being represented more in the media today than ever. But this is still the struggle that a lot of us deal with. Asians, Native American, Hawaiians, Pacific Islanders especially, still face today. And the biggest problem is representation, not just in the media, but in all areas of American life. A little history lesson. Through much American history, for example, the story of the Asian American specific island leaders has generally been largely ignored or appropriated into safe, little neat boxes. Little stories in the corner of your textbook. I remember my middle school history textbook where the only mention of people who looked like me were stories of Chinese immigrants that came over to work on the railroads. That's it. It's safe, neat, and in a little box in the margins of the textbook. What they didn't tell us was that soon after was the Chinese Exclusion act of 1882, the only time a specific racial group was explicitly named and excluded in American law. What they didn't tell us were the numerous and thriving communities that Asian Americans created despite laws and policies that prevented specific rights and even land ownership. What they didn't tell us were all the systemic and persistent attacks and dismantling of Chinatowns across the country. Our history is rich, diverse and worthy. Give you an example. We've all heard of Jackie Robinson, right? The baseball player who broke the color barrier. Wonderful story in Major League Baseball. But what you probably haven't heard of is Wataru Musaka, the Japanese American who broke the color barrier in the NBA. Again, excluded from history. I could go on with tons of wonderful examples of our rich history, but I, for the sake of keeping this meeting under five hours. I'll move on. So I want to share a personal story because I want to keep it real and local. Very local. Me, local, because some of these. But, you know, some of these things are going to be relevant later as I talk about education. So I remember very vividly the first time in elementary school that I got a C on my report card. Now, I remember this very vividly because my dad was furious, right? He was yelling and everything like that. I don't actually remember why I got a C or what I got a C on, But I do remember very vividly when my dad said to me, when I argue back, I said something like, it's just one grade. Why is it such a big deal? Originally, I thought it was because I did the very American thing, which is that those of you who are Asian American probably know exactly what I'm talking about. You don't talk back to your elders. But that's what I thought was what caused this. But it wasn't. His tone changed. His demeanor turned calm, and then he was quiet. And then suddenly he said something that I've never forgotten since. He said this in Mandarin. So I'm going to try my best to translate, he said, because one day they may come for us. And you're more likely to survive if you have a valuable skill. It took me maybe decades to figure out where that came from. So I'll start from the beginning. 1965. No, that's not when I was born. I'm a lot younger than that. 1965 was most of when most of the restrictions from the Chinese Exclusion act was finally repealed. That's when my dad, a year later than that, immigrated from Taiwan to the United States. It wasn't a straight flight. He had to hop over to Midway and then to Hawaii. I might have gotten that backwards. And then to San Francisco and then to Chicago. He went to school in Chicago. He was also very proud political activist. He was very proud to be in the United States. He was very proud of the First Amendment, the freedom of speech. He spoke up for democracy. He spoke against the government in China. He spoke against a dictator in Taiwan at that time. And one big, huge thing, that there was a murder of a Taiwanese American professor from Kansas back then. It sent shock waves across a lot in the Asian American community. This person who was murdered was also very vocal for speaking against the tyranny that was happening in both Taiwan and China. And my dad was also targeted. There was an attempt made on his life. He found out soon the hard way that basically the police and the FBI knew about these plots and did nothing about them because they didn't want to get involved with foreigners. I think that's what they called them. So again, here we have a United States citizen excluded again from basic protections. In fact, you don't have to really look too far to find out where my dear dad's fear of coming for us comes from. Our very own Portland Expo center, if you didn't know, back in 1942 was a site where 3,700 Japanese Americans were imprisoned during World War II. There are many who portrayed the reasons for Japanese American internment because of xenophobia or security during the war, but it was also a money grab. When the Japanese Americans were finally released, most of them had found their properties and lands had been auctioned off. The fact that I'm assuming most of you have heard this history was itself a huge achievement. It took incredible amounts of work and courage for Asian Americans and their allies to surface this history and finally see it represented in our textbooks. Our work continues today. There have been multiple studies by university and economic firms on employment opportunities. Like once they sent thousands of identical resumes to random employers across the country, with the only difference between them is just the names. And all these studies, even very recent ones just from a few years ago, show that resumes that had very Asian or black names were anywhere from 30 to 50% less likely to get called back. Callbacks from and here again, exclusion from opportunities. So what can we do? I don't like to focus on problems. I like to focus on solutions. First, representation is a cure for exclusion. We need to put in the work, be allies and support each other. Find something cool in AAPI history and share it. Many Asian cultures struggle to speak up in public. Help make some space for them, amplify their voices or just listen. Be aware of any personal biases you may hold. I go back to the movies again because growing up most of the Asians that I saw on TV were either bad guys, martial artists, or very caricaturized nerds. I use air quotes and nerds. When I was a kid, the two most common questions I would get were where are you from? I always say Chicago, south side or thanks for getting that joke or do you know kung fu? I remember one time just I always say no, but because I don't one time out of curiosity, I just was curious what would happen. There was a kind of a bully ish kid in school and I just figure he asked me I might as well say yes. I said yes, you didn't talk to me for the rest of the year. This is why ignorance can work against you too, just so you know. So the question you should ask yourself what biases do we have when we think about our AAPI students? Many of us adults grew up at a time when Asians were portrayed as nerds in the media. When, you know, back decades ago, still a little bit today. The model minority myth was very prevalent and used to pit one racial group against another. Oftentimes when we look at averages, they cover up nuances and hide real stories underneath. In some cases like mine, the need to do well was driven out of survival or my dad scaring the I can't say that word in public out of me because we knew we had to achieve 150% to get the same opportunities as everyone else. The reality is that groups categorized under AAPI include both high achieving students and many of our most struggling groups. This is also the same story economically and this leads to why I'm a this actually leads to why I'm a proud past employee, parent and now board member of pps. Because I've seen PPS do have done and continues to do a lot of work to improve awareness and representation of our AAPI students. PPS was among the first to establish dual language programs in Japanese, Mandarin and Vietnamese, creating culture where not just these languages but the cultures are mainstream. And that's key here. PPS has done a lot of work to disaggregate the data, especially among our Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islanders, acknowledging that these groups have their own unique strengths and struggles, especially in our American society today, and continue to work across and address all the unique needs that our various groups and communities need. But there's still so much we need to do with the way that Oregon funds education. Building capacity was and continues to be seriously hampered as everyone up and down the district, teachers, bus drivers, custodians, admin have workloads that look more like buckets of job descriptions than actual just job description. The best way to sail towards progress is with a constant wind on your back. Even a small one. Not one that sometimes blows forward and then sometimes blows backwards like our current funding model does every five to 10 years. But we have one big thing going for us and that is our community. Our community that cares about education and all of its students. So here's my ask. My ask is in celebration of Asian American, Native Hawaiian Pacific Islander Heritage Month. I think that's the longest specific month we have, so I'm going to say it again in celebration of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, Pacific Islander Heritage Month, my ask is this is for us to keep pushing forward towards a future where we no longer need Asian American, Native Hawaiian, Pacific Islander Heritage Month or a Black History Month or a Hispanic Heritage Month or Women's History Month or any other months that I've totally forgotten because, you know, we all have become mainstream and are all year, always. No more boxes. Thank you. All right. All right. Thank you, Director Wong, for that. I know it takes a lot to tell your personal experiences, so I just want to say I appreciate you for that. Do I have a motion and a second to adopt Resolution 6899? So moved. Second. All right, direct to pass. Move under rector Sylvan Sullivan. I'm looking over there, trying to look at the name seconds. Is there any other board discussion? No, I just. I want to appreciate you for sharing your story. I think it's really impactful. I'll take your ask into consideration. I just. I can't believe that you're only the second Asian Pacific American to serve on this board. I didn't know that there was a first. I thought you were the first. Someone needs to fact check my history. I just want to appreciate you as a colleague and what you bring to this board and if you talked about looking into different careers and I don't know if you considered comedian, but some parts of that were very humorous and I appreciate you for it. I'd like to share something, too. Eddie and I came on new together on the board and it's just been such a pleasure to work with you and you've always got good ideas and you listen and you're supportive and I just really appreciate you. Thanks. Thank you. All right, Ms. Powell, are there any other public comments? Yes, we have three. All right, come on up. We'll start with Mina. She just you. So I'm from Taiwan and I'm going to start with Chinese. And now I'm going to change the English. Hi, I'm Mina and I'm a surround. When I first come, I did not know English, but the kids helped me. And the ESL teacher and the English teacher went easing on me. They helped me catch up to my grade. Help us keep our MIP program. Thank you. Next we have Duncan Wong and Yoyo Chow. Hello. Good evening, everyone. My name is Yoyo Zhao. So today I will speak. Speak Chinese. Hui. Sorry, just one quick ask. I know this is recorded on YouTube. Is it possible that we could get someone to translate that for the rest of the board at some point? There is a translated version that was submitted. Oh, oh, this thing? There was a. Yeah, that testimony was translated and it's not that document, but I think the clerk has it. It's been submitted. Okay, thank you. Okay, great. Well, thank you. Good evening, Chair Holland and members of the school board. My name is Duncan Huang. I'm wearing a number of hats today. First, representing apana, Asian Pacific American Network of Oregon. I'm also elected Metro counselor. I represent Southeast and Southwest Portland. Thank you, Andrew. And I'm a proud Chinese American myself. And finally, I'm a huge Harold and Kumar fan as well. So today we're here to celebrate Asian American, Native Hawaiian, Pacific Islander Heritage Month. So I'm going to start by thank. Thanking you for your proclamation and thank you for your words that rang true for so many of us here in this room. I want to thank PPS for being such a strong partner to these programs over the years. Our organization. We've worked with you over the last decade or so to work on the creation of a Vietnamese dual language program, the ethnic studies program, and the expansion of a Mandarin dual language immersion program. These programs, as you've heard from testimony, have made a huge difference in the lives of our community members. And you heard about the impact they've had just in the day to day lives and educational attainment and being able to translate for parents. So they've done a ton of good. However, we're really concerned about some of the proposed cuts that have been made to the Vietnamese program as well as potential cuts next year for the Mandarin immersion program. These cuts may consolidate class sizes and reduces the access of native English speakers for those classes as well, which jeopardizes the educational experience of current students and also the overall health of a program going forward. We recommend that you restore service levels to these programs. And we understand that there are two or ten positions set aside for Southeast schools. Two of those could be allocated to backstop reductions in the Mandarin doi. And I just wanted to share too that, you know, dual language programs are being defunded across the state. For our organization, this is a major priority and we look forward to working with school districts across the state to bring additional funding to these important DOI programs in the 2025 long session. So I just want to end by saying proclamations like these are beautiful, but they need to be backed by actions. And we really encourage. Thank you. We really encourage you to maintain service levels. And also, while I'm up here, I would like to also say that our organization does not support the JRTC initiative. We don't. Thank you. We don't believe in investing public resources while important programs like the DLI programs are facing cuts. So thank you for your time and consideration. Ms. Powell, is there any another public comment? No, that's it. All right. The board will now vote on Resolution 6899, resolution to recognize May as Asian American, Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islander here this month. All in favor, please indicate by saying yes. Yes. Yes. All right, Student Director Silverstein, please indicate your vote. Yes. All right. Resolution 6899 is approved by a voter 7O with student director Silverstein voting yes. All right. Next on our agenda tonight, we will hear from students who have recently traveled out of state for field Trips. Interim Superintendent Dr. Huss, would you like to introduce this item? Yes. Thank. Thank you, Chair Hollins. Margaret Calvert, our assistant superintendent over secondary schools, will be introducing our students this evening. All right. Good evening, everyone. My name is Margaret Calvert. I'm one of the Assistant Superintendents. As Dr. Husk shared, I think think Roseanne's going to help me get opportunity to present. Sorry, Dr. Calvert, I just want to pause one sec to recognize all the people in back who are wearing red. They, they came here to support Asian American Pacific Islander Heritage Month. They also came to support Woodstock. It's very hard for a lot of our families from this area to especially our native speakers to come out and make it. And I just want to recognize that they have showed up and they show support. Thank you. Sorry, Dr. Halbert. So I recognize that we were looking for some students to come join us this evening. I have trip leaders with us and they're going to from Grant and from Jefferson. So if I could invite Steve Gonzales and Matt Daniel down please to join me. And part of the, part of the challenge for this evening I just wanted to share with folks is that we're in the middle of AP testing and there are NIB testing and various other forms of things that are keeping students very busy. And so unfortunately, we could not have students join us tonight, but we do have the two trip leaders. I'm going to try to get a presentation up and running, but I'll let Steve and Matt introduce themselves as I get this set up. Good evening, everyone. I'm Steve Gonzales, artistic director of Jefferson Dancers over at Jefferson High School. I'm Matt Daniels. I teach sophomore English, the Grant magazine, PSU news writing so seniors can get dual credit for the class and also Intro to Journalism at Grant High School. Give me one second just as we get started here. There we go. I think I got it. Voila, voila. There we go. So there are a number of times that we come before the board with a variety of requests for students to do some off campus learning activities. And part of what we're going to share tonight is a bit of the experience from March that these two leaders have shared and worked through. Just as a little bit of a backdrop, I did a quick look today. So far this year, as part of our off campus learning opportunities, we have had almost 300 requests for either use of student equity travel funds and or overnight Trips. We're at 299, I think, so far. So it's been coming out of the pandemic. I think there was a real interest in how are we providing opportunities for students to learn not only within our school walls, but outside and in our communities and the world, ultimately. And so let's turn this over to our two guest presenters here to share what their experiences were. These are experiences that happened back in March. So just as a frame of reference. So as I said, there are two different trips. One is a Grant magazine took a trip to New York City, and the Jefferson Dancers took a trip of France that they'll be sharing some of their experiences. I think we start with Grant. So, Matt. Yeah, so just to kind of talk a little bit about this. So this is my second year advising the magazine at Grant High School. And they used to. Every year we apply to send, we submit our work to the Columbia Scholastic Press association. And in, just in December, they usually they'll tell you if you want a crown award. And then when in the spring, they let you know if you want a silver or gold. We hadn't won one for a couple years, like during COVID and things like that. And so it was really exciting when over winter break, I saw that they had posted a list. I was like, oh, I'll check and see if we're on there. And we were on there and I had this moment of excitement for the students. I was like, they're gonna be so excited. But then I had a moment of panic about how am I going to plan and pay for this trip? And so it was a little bit mixed emotions, but I knew that they were going to be looking forward to it and I didn't want to let them down. And so, you know, we talked about it, we said, you know, we don't really have the funds for it. Are we all willing to, you know, myself and the students and their families, are we willing to, you know, carve out some extra time to make this work. And they're on board. And it seems the award is for the. The work from the previous year. And so I knew that we couldn't take all 26 students. And so I made the decision that we would take the returning students to recognize their work on that. So that's where I got the number of 10 students. There's myself one other chaperone. And on that trip it was. I wouldn't trade that trip to the world. It was an amazing experience. I felt that way. The students felt that way. They were very busy days. It was exhausting. But every day I think we all had enough energy just because of how excited we were to be there and have that as an experience for me. I was able to connect with other advisors at the high school and collegiate level across the country with a range of experience. And I left attending sessions where I could better, better engage my introduction students. Not all of them move on to the magazine, but the ones that do. It's a good kind of bridge, kind of have both those classes. And so it was a great learning experience for me. And then every day we kind of debriefed and the students shared what sessions they enjoyed in terms of that. And I think another slide. I mentioned how many. I think there's over 70 options, 70 sessions offered each day. Another really cool thing for the students was that they're able to kind of get a college experience. These sessions were kind of spread across Columbia's campus. I believe they're college students around spring break. And so they kind of had the experience of going from class to class. And it kind of took me back to my college days. And so that was a really fun experience with that. And then in the evenings and on Saturday, our flight wasn't until later in the day on Saturday. And so we spent the evenings. One night we went to the Apollo. Our hotel is right next door. We also wound up going to the Met Central park area. By the end of it, I felt like we had a decent grasp of Manhattan. And the worst thing that happened was I think about half of us got split up from a bus. It was our fault, but learned that bus drivers in New York don't wait for anybody, especially out of towners who look confused. But we were separated for about five minutes. But we were able to reconnect. So if that was the worst thing that happened, I can live with that. Yeah, it was just from day one. It was just a great experience, time consuming. But again, every little bit of it was worth it just for what I gained from it and from what the students gained from that as well. So we had another school that also participated in the same experience. The students from McDaniel High School also went from their publications class. And in talking with principal Skiles this evening, again, there's track meets, softball games, baseball games, and AP testing. And so unfortunately, they could not join us this evening, but Both Grant and McDaniel were able to participate. And I think that one of the things that I want to highlight from the experience is similar to what we see from the constitution teams is that we're seeing opportunities that schools are collaborating with each other about what are the experiences. And then we're starting to see more schools and a variety of schools take advantage and then participate in these as well. So next up we have. Let's see if I. There we go. We have Steve Gonzalez. And I'll just give a brief plug for the Jefferson Dancers, which I believe is the longest standing dance active dance company in Oregon. For those of you who don't know, I am an alum of Jefferson High School. I was a former Jefferson dancer, and so I've come full circle, super honored and proud to be back. Part of the reason when I took over the company too, and I had this amazing career in dance was to bring something new to the group. And I toured a lot for many, many years. I danced with a company called Momix in New York City, and I wanted to bring that back to the Jeffs and dancers. And so we have over the years, and this is my 25th year, Jeff gone on 13 national trips and 11 international tours. This was probably our seventh time in the south of France. Part of that reason is back in 2002, a former student of mine who was an exchange student, Charlotte Fayard, now has her own company in the south of France and a studio. And so she was our host and brought us back. So that's the connection. So last March, Jefferson Dancers had the opportunity to travel to the south of France. This trip provided the opportunity to both dance teach and perform. Cultural exploration expands a perspective, fostering personal growth and global awareness. This experience cultivates performance opportunities, independence, leadership, and adaptability vital for future success in the arts. There were a total of 17 dancers who attended on this trip. 75% of our students fell into the category of combined historically underserved, which includes the following subgroups of Black native Pacific Islander, Latino English language learners, students with disabilities, and students qualifying for free lunch by direct certification. The academic outcomes are resilient and adaptable. Lifelong learners. One of the questions that was asked was give us some of the highlights and key learning from the trip. But first, I'd like to say through fundraising connections and diligence, we are working to provide an extraordinary experience for our students. Regardless of their capacity to pay, this will be a transformative experience for our students, allowing them to grow, learn and perform in another country. In France, our students participated in dance classes and workshops. Our students had the opportunity to teach jazz tap, which they call click clap, hip hop and African dance to local dancers. We had the opportunity to explore Exim, Provence, St. Remy and Marseille. We attended a musical concert by classical musicians called Oracles. We toured several sites including the Basilica of Notre Dame and Lagarde, Carrieres de Luminaires, the Van Gogh exhibit and Chateau des Bon de Provence. If you've never been to the south of France, you have to. It's amazing. And of course, our students had the opportunity to perform. They performed for a local business convention, French boarding school, street performances, and a full two hour ticketed concert performance at Theater Passino Grand. It truly was an amazing experience for all. We don't have students here tonight because I think they're just now getting out of rehearsal. There were some quotes. There's one in particular that I'd like to read from one of my students. My experience in X was eye opening for me. It formed a sense of cultural appreciation and grew my perspective in the dance world. I came back with a new appreciation with my teammates and director, which made us closer than ever. If it wasn't for the Jefferson Dance Company, I might not have known what is really available to me regarding my bright future in the dance world. So again, I think that given where we are in the school year, I just want to appreciate. There are a couple things. One is Teacher Appreciation Week. So I want to appreciate two amazing educators that have created remarkable experiences for students. And I just again want to say that as we have come back from the pandemic and come back into some sense of a rhythm of a school year, part of what we are really aware of is that is the value in off campus learning opportunities and the synergies that come from that. And not only for Dan's companies and the work that Steve has done, you know, to come back to the community from which he came and also an artistic director for 25 years, but also to see the synergy between Grant and McDaniel going to a conference in New York City and having that experience. And it's something that brings not only school communities, but then our whole high school community together. And we're seeing this again at other grade levels as well. And so just wanted to thank you for the opportunity for sharing these experiences and also the opportunities that come from the Student Travel Equity Fund. Thank you so much. And this is one of the reasons why I really enjoy these testimonies. When we talk about what PPS brings to the table right now. We, in the last 30 days or 45 days, we've had our basketball teams up, we had our continental constitutional teams up. Right. We are showing that as a district we are great. And this is what I really enjoy. So I just thank you guys for what you're doing and keep up the good work. Thank you. Thank you. I have one last plug. I have one last plug. In June, June 6, 7, 8, 9 Jefferson dancers were invited to perform with Oregon Ballet Theatre for their Maid in Portland at the Newmark Theatre. So if anybody wants to see them perform, save the date. Yes. June 6th, 7th, 8, 9th, Newmark. And Director Gonzalez, I would love to see a video of that flash mob if it's, if one is available. Oh, it's on our TikTok. Oh, it's on the TikTok. Thank you very much. All right. All right. Well, thank you again for that. All right, so next up we have our superintendent report. Superintendent Dr. Huss, would you like to give your report? Yes, just very briefly with the celebrating of teachers and the hard work of dual language schools, dance performances, academic performances, contests, et cetera, I just want to remind everybody that the more that this community can unify around the support for public education at the local level, at the state level, we have a great resource in the amount of people in this community who care so deeply about our education system and a lot of work ahead of us to do. Thank you, Chair Hollins. All right, next we have our student director report. Director Silverstein, would you like to present your report? Yes, thank you. Sorry, mine's not going to be that brief. So starting off as always with some student opportunities, PPS has a climate summit on May 22. There's going to be a district wide flea market on I believe June 1st at Wells High School. And then also look out on the DSC Instagram at PPS Student Council. We're gonna be posting about a survey for potential changes to the high school lunch menu. Exciting. Personally, I love my school lunch. Putting that out there. So just a little status update. Really encourage everyone to ask the students in their lives how they're doing. Just speaking with teachers, district student council members, also people at my school. There's Definitely this underlying current of stress. And as mentioned, I think a part of that is AP and IB exams. So if you're going through that, I see you. Me, too. But I also think it's just an overall general trend because I'm hearing from people who aren't in those classes about how they can't wait to get out of school, that every moment there feels like hours on end. And that just made me really, really sad. I mean, I think that education is. I mean, it's right, and it's something that I'm really grateful for. And it just. It really breaks my heart to see that so many students view school as a place they don't want to be. And obviously, I don't have the solution to that, but I think that is something that we should be aware of. And. Yeah, and I guess, like all my friends now, they always tease me. They're like, frankie, if we had to associate you with two words, it'd be public education. You talk about it all the time, but really, that is one of the most important things we can offer our youth. So, please, I encourage people. We need funding, and we need to really fix this problem. How can we make schools a place students want to be? And I think a big part of that is our teachers. So, yes, I want to give a big. I don't know if I can emphasize how big that thank you is to our teachers and administrators, but today there's one specific teacher, I guess former teacher, that I want to talk about. It's kind of double because it's my grandma and she's Chinese, so she counts for both appreciations. And I think that she is the person who really instilled my love of education. I feel very lucky that I have lived with my grandparents, not lived with them, but they're in town. And just like education has been with me my whole life, she's always talked about how important it was and how grateful I should be. And that's something I really take with me. And I do think that is the reason I am here today. And I think that just goes to show how your community offers you so many opportunities. And that's also why I feel really grateful to be in pbs. I know we go through our struggles and there's a lot of disagreement, but I think it's actually wonderful how engaged our community is. And, like, just looking out here, this makes me feel so proud to be a part of pps that people care enough to want to come to these meetings and speak about the things that matter to them. So thank you and thank you for what you said. That really resonated with me. And, you know, I see there's so much work being done in our district, but obviously we still have a long ways to go. I'm very, very proud to be Asian, but I also just in daily experiences, I think that racism is very, very normalized. Unfortunately, even if we like to act that we're so progressive all the time, there are just little microaggressions and things like that. So I think really celebrating everything and all the contributions of Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders, but also taking the time to reflect on yourself, what internal biases do you hold. So, yeah, I'm very, very proud to be the granddaughter of a former teacher, an Asian American, and a PPS community and a debate champion. All right, next we have student comments. Up next, we have student comments. Ms. Powell, do we have any students signed up? We sure do. First, I want to call three people who signed up virtually but haven't entered the room in case they came here in person. Lily Robbins, Kaylin Proya, and Olivia Lynn. Okay, I'll keep checking our zoom. Next we have River McLean, River Mc, Kaylin Stefak, and Arlo Capone. All right, before we begin, first, meet the board. Thank you guys for taking the time to attend this meeting and providing your comments. Public input, especially from our students, informs and improves our work, and we look forward to hearing your thoughts and reflections. Our board office may follow up on board related issues raised during public testimony. We request that complaints about individual employees be directed to the superintendent office as a personnel matter. For materials you would like for the board to receive, handouts, pictures, etc. Please do not come to the dais. Please hand them to Our Board Manager, Ms. Roseanne Powell over there in the corner, and she will distribute them to us. If you have additional materials or items you would like to provide to the board or superintendent, we ask that you email them to public comment. All1Word pps.net that's public commentps.net Please make sure when you begin your comments that you clearly state your name and spell your last name. You have three minutes to speak. You will hear a sound after three minutes, which means you'll have 30 seconds to wrap up your comments. Thank you. Good evening. My name is Arlo Capone and I'm a sophomore at Cleveland High School. I'm proud to be a two year varsity starter for our baseball team and this year the varsity captain. First of all, I want to express my gratitude to the school board for considering the plan to upgrade the athletic facilities at Cleveland. This means a lot to all of the athletes at our school who put in the work every day, even without the same opportunities and resources as many other schools in the district. As you know, the home field for Cleveland baseball is across Highway 26 in Powell park, which currently has no affiliation with Cleveland or pps. Our access to this field is very inconsistent, and some years it's not until mid season that we can use our own home field. Because Portland park deems as unplayable for preseason practices, we've had to start as early as 6am because that's the only time that space was available. This year, baseball tryouts were held in the mornings before school on a basketball court, and we couldn't get on an actual baseball field until just five days before our first game. Meanwhile, teams from other schools in the district have been practicing on their fields all winter. Just last Friday, we couldn't practice at all due to lack of available space, which we often compete with for other athletic programs at our school. This creates a sense of inequity and tension among the different sports and activities. When we are able to practice and play at Powell park, we face even more problems. Our equipment shed became a temporary living arrangement for a houseless person earlier this year after they removed part of the siding and set up camp. During the community cleanup a few weeks later, players and parents had to pick up needles, needle caps, burnt aluminum foil and other drug paraphernalia left behind. Later that month, a generator was stolen from that same shed used to run our pitching machine. Additionally, the team has to put up and take down a chain link outfield fence every year that repeatedly gets vandalized and removed throughout the season, which we have to spend our practice time repairing. To put things in perspective, schools like Grant, McDaniel and Lincoln all have state of the art turf fields and hitting facilities. We're not asking for more than what other schools have. We're just asking for the same opportunities to train and compete. The plan you're considering tonight is not just about building a better baseball field and softball field, but it's about giving students like me a fair chance to pursue our passions and goals. We're very excited about our current modernization plan, and I'm here not only to support that plan, but to ask if there's anything that could be done sooner, like beginning the partnership with Portland Parks to improve Powell Park. That would be greatly appreciated. Thank you. Good evening, board members. My name is Kaelyn Steffek and I'm a sophomore at Cleveland High School and I'm also proud to be the co captain of Cleveland's varsity softball team. So I understand that there are plans in the modernization design being presented for turf softball and baseball fields at Powell park, along with a hitting facility similar to those of other PIL remodels. However, I'm also aware that these are listed as alternates in the cost summary, and while I'm glad to see these plans, I'm here to share the experience of my softball team and to continue to advocate for these important improvements to become a reality. Our home field is Woodstock park, which is over two and a half miles from our school. Given the distance, we have to carpool to daily practices and we have to rely on upperclassmen and parents to drive us there. Buses aren't guaranteed for games, so we often have to depend on them to drive to those as well, which is particularly difficult for parents who have to leave their jobs in the middle of the day to drive us around. The Woodstock fields are maintained by Portland Parks and Rec and we share them with Woodstock Elementary, Southeast Portland Little League and other community programs. It is open to the community and cared for as such, but not for a school that wants to compete at the highest level possible. Not only is Woodstock not suitable, it has many issues that create safety hazards. Some major examples are that the dirt is extremely compact and there's a dangerous lip in the transition from the infield to the outfield. We've had to take it upon ourselves to administer superficial maintenance, but we're limited by PPR's policies. There's also nothing keeping dogs from the adjacent dog park and people walking onto the field and we've had many games interrupted because of this. As a team that wants to compete with the best schools in Oregon, this doesn't work. I also play competitive fast pitch and have practiced at several high schools that have top notch fields without all of these issues. Their athletes are able to thrive on campus supported by their school's community. Our facilities can't compare and our teams are put at a disadvantage because of it. This past week due to the rain, Woodstock's dirt field has been unplayable. Thankfully, we've been able to play at McDaniel and Grant's Turf fields instead. This had to happen last year as well, except Grant was the only playable turf field in our league and had to host every rained out game around their own baseball and softball schedules. And when our field is unplayable, we can't practice either. We often have to share the gym, our one gym, with other sports or even practice in our school's locker rooms. We don't get the same athletic opportunities as schools that can practice year round. The last thing I want to touch on is that Woodstock park is not the safest space. It's common to find houseless people around the field and in the bathrooms, along with alcohol, bottles, needles, burnt foil and other drug paraphernalia. Graffiti, trash and other unwelcoming sites are frequent. So all of us here tonight are thankful that turf fields are included in these modernization plans. And I respectfully ask that you prioritize those fields at Powell park in your decisions tonight. However, it's my understanding that as alternatives in the budget, these fields don't need to wait for the proposed school construction in 2026. My second request is that you consider building these fields in partnership with Portland Parks and Rec before the school construction timeline so that our current teams can enjoy and benefit from better facilities and represent the PIL with pride. Thank. Is that all about the comments? No. Would you like me to call the other speakers again? Yes, please. River McLean. River McLean, Lily Robbins, Kalyn Proya and Olivia Lynn. Okay. All right, thank you again for your guys comments. Feel free to contact Senior Board manager Roseanne Powell if you feel something specifically you want to follow up on with the board or the board office. All right, next we have second readings of policies. Tonight we're voting on revisions to three policies. Diploma requirements, District advocacy and fundraising and Junior Reserve Officer Training Corp and military careers. So I just want to remind everyone, if we're not able to do our business, we will leave and we can go downstairs. You guys can stay up here and boo and do all you want and we'll go downstairs without you guys to conduct our business for our kids. It's up to. Whatever you guys want is fine with us. All right, so we're going to start with the second reading of the diploma requirements. 4.2 0.042 p. Director Bermero, would you please introduce this item? Yes. Thank you, Chair Hollins. This is related to diploma requirements and it is. There were some changes that were made at the state level and in terms of what's required. And so these are really a set of conforming amendments we had. So it's an existing policy and some conforming amendments. We had a. We approved it out of committee on a unanimous vote for a first reading. We haven't had any public comment contrary either for or against it. I think everybody realizes these are statutory changes. I will note that there is one element in the. We have It's a little bit unusual. There are essential skills that the state has had and the state put a pause on them. And instead of taking it out of our policy, which is the direction we first headed, because they're not actually in force, but we've left them in the policy with a footnote that we expect when the state makes a decision either to unpause them or to maybe modify them, that we will modify the policy. So that's a little bit unusual. That's still in there. But we note that they're not in effect until the state lifts its pause or we take some other action. All right, we have a motion and a second to adopt resolution 6903. Motion. Second director green motions. Director to pass. Gotcha. Seconds. Is there any board discussion? All right. Hearing None. Is there any public comment? There is not. All right. The board will now vote on 6903 resolution to adopt revised diploma requirements policy 4.2 0.042 p. All in favor, please indicate by saying yes. Yes. All opposed. Hearing None. Student Director Silverstein, please indicate your vote. Yes. All right. Resolution 6903 is approved by voter 7 to 0, with student director Silverstein unofficially voting yes. All right, up next, we have district wide advocacy and fundraising. 7.1 0.020 p. Second reading of district wide advocacy and fundraising. Director Bur Edwards, would you please introduce this item? Thank you. Chair Hollins. This is a topic that's been before the board for many years. After several years of discussion about this policy, the policy committee unanimously recommended a first reading or what's also known as an introduction on April 11. At that time, I shared the history of how local funding for staff at individual schools came about after Measure five and how it evolved over the years. This policy moves us to a more equitable, inclusive district fundraising model for raising staff and to supporting advocacy work for our school community. Since the board held its first reading, There have been two policy committee meetings on April 11th and 29th. At both meetings, as is our practice, all the policies out for the first reading were on the agenda. At the first meeting on April 11, we expanded public comment to seven slots just on this topic, and we had a board discussion as well. At that time, I moved to amend the policy to remove a sentence that had the school board approving the district wide foundation's board members. This was based on discussions I'd had with staff at the April 29 committee meeting. This draft policy was on the agenda and we also took public comment. The meeting on the Topic. In addition, we've received written comments which I've reviewed and I'm sure we all have and taken into consideration. I'm going to pass out a packet that has just sort of hopefully a summary of materials relating to this. So it has the revised policy. It has the timeline of all of our board and committee meetings and community engagements laid out with the dates. There's more than 29 meetings. It also has a staff report. There is also report from the targeted engagement that occurred as part of the community process and that was supported by the Office of Strategic Partnerships. There also was an administrative survey that at the time Chief of Staff Garcia and I sent to all principals asking them about the policy changes. There's also a statement of support from the pat. There's a letter from the Fund for pps. And I think we're also going to hear from Jonathan Garcia this evening. But there's a letter that he sent us earlier about the policy changes. There's also the 2020, 22, 23 and the 2425 Local School Fundraising and PPS Parent Fund Awards, and also the conceptual draft fundraising plan and next steps. So that's just the introduction. I don't know, Director Greenson's, whether this is the point that you'd like Jonathan Garcia to speak. Okay. Introduced. All right. Do I have a motion and a second. Do I have a motion and a second to adopt Resolution 6904? Okay, second. All right. Director Wong, motions. Director, to pass seconds. All right, so we have a Jonathan Garcia who's here, and I want to actually do public comments before we get into the board discussion. Is that okay with you guys? Before we get into the substance. I know. Can I ask a procedural question? Yes. I'm just curious why this is up for a second reading and not a first reading, given the significant amendment that was made during the policy committee meeting. We actually had a discussion. Discussion about that and it's not a substantive. And we consulted with council as well. It's not a substantive. Actually, it's a. It's not a substantial. Substantial. Sorry, not substantive. So that's the standard that's set forth in the policy. If the proposed language of the policy has changed substantially as determined by the board after the first reading, the policy policy shall be set for an additional first reading. So it is. That's the opinion I gave on the single sentence deletion. But obviously the policy gives that discretion to the board to decide itself whether that is substantial or not. So I just want to ask because, I mean, single Sentence. But it's a very significant policy change. The original policy said that we would, as a board, appoint the members of the district by foundation. And I want to point out the last board meeting, I actually suggested that we amend that. At the board meeting. The board chose not to. Had we at that meeting, obviously, we could have put it up for first reading and went back. There was a decision not to. The policy committee took it up and made that amendment during policy committee meeting. So I guess I really have two questions. One is to our judge of counsel, why would this not be considered, you know, substantial? And I know the board gets to decide that, but it doesn't. Like you provided a staff opinion. Let me finish the second question. So, one is, why would you not be considered substantial? And then I guess two, it doesn't happen often, but we have amended policies during the first reading. Since I've been on the board, we have always come back and had them go for another first reading when that's happened. So I'm curious why we're suspending this policy for this particular. Actually, I can think of an example when I tried to suspend something back to the committee that you amended the vacation policy and we just voted it out. And the policy. We had this discussion in a public policy committee meeting about the change. And frankly, I don't see this as central at all to the policy change. The fund had fewer members than it's had in the past, and it was designed to be helpful. I got. I got some additional advice shortly before the original meeting, had additional conversations the next day. Like I said, to me, it's inconsequential to the overall policy. Taking it out, which is why I didn't mind taking it out. I mean, you opposed it. I don't think you offered an amendment. You actually referenced a privileged memoir that that was. And I don't need to go into it. But you didn't offer an amendment to remove it. You made reference to a privileged memo, threaten. I asked her. I asked her to go to an executive session so we could discuss the legal. But you didn't. I didn't oppose any. You didn't offer an amendment. I didn't oppose anything. I'd like to ask the board if we consider. It's clearly substantial. To me, I think. I think that people who aren't tracking this as closely as board members or community advocates. It's a big change to this policy, and it feels like we should follow our practice. And if we're not going to follow our practice, I think we should be Very clear that we're waiving what is this policy 1.7 0.020 unless we're going to set a new precedent, which is that changes can be made without going back to first reading. So I just want us to be clear that we're following the rules and procedure that I want to get here from Liz on that. Substantial versus right. In my opinion, it's not substantial because it's a single subject in one sentence that's fairly disconnected from the bulk of the rest of the policy. That's somewhat of a subjective standard. It's not a matrix about what's substantial and not. But in my view, given that it was a single sentence at the end of the policy disconnected from most of the rest of the substance of the policy. That's why I gave the opinion that it was not substantial, it was substantive. We went back and forth, but the policy speaks to substantial. Chair Hollins, I'd like to offer an amendment to the resolution that the board finds that deletion of the sentence is not a substantial change to the the policy. And I'd ask somebody to second that. Second. I, I would like and have pointed out to me what that sentence is. Okay. We have a amendment to the resolution, so we want to take a vote on that amendment on the resolution. So we got a first and a second. So we can have can you repeat who moved and who seconded those? So Director Burmet Wirtz moved, Director Green second. Now we can go into the conversation around do the board want to do we believe it's a the substantiated or not? If it is substantiated, then we would go back, send it back and go to a second reading. If we decide it's not substantiated, then we will move on. Did I get that right, Liz? Yes, except substantial. We're putting out a lot of words that all sound the same. I know, Substantial. Substantial. Okay. Substantial. Substantial. Okay. So to make sure I make sure it's clear again. So the amendment on the table is if the removal of the sentence was substantial enough to send it back to the first reading. That's the concept. But I think the motion is to amend the resolution to find that that deletion of that one sentence sentence was not substantial and therefore we proceed with the second reading. Okay. So we're right now we're just discussing discussing if it is substantial enough. Right. Okay. So that's a discussion. Any discussions Was my question what was it before it was written removed and what is it now? It said that the PBS school board would approve the directors of the Fund for People for the district wide Foundation. It said that and then it was removed and it was removed in committee. And so now it doesn't say. Now it doesn't say that will be that there are independent 501 and so they can choose. And in the packet you have a letter from Jonathan Garcia in which he says we plan to expand our board of directors and collaborate with the PPS parent Advisory committee to steward philanthropic funds. Race to this new model. As selected representatives of our community. You possess the insight necessary to help us identify new board members who can join us in guiding the fund for PPS as an independent 50133 nonprofit. So we could offer suggestions of who could be on fund but it's ultimately their decision. So we have no decision at all. Correct? Correct. As we don't for right now anyway. I just want to be clear. In favor means we don't think it's substantial. Opposed means Correct. Director BermeyWorks. Any other comments? Now I just urged my fellow board members to vote yes because we've spent five years talking about this topic and it's not a substantial change. And I welcome our ongoing discussions and work with the Fund for PPS and recognize their own governance rules and the distinction between the two of us. Thank you Director Green. I have no questions. Yeah, I agree with Dr. Or Director Brim. Onwards. Okay. Okay. So we're going to go ahead and vote. So a yes vote means we agree that it's not a substantial enough change to warrant to go back to the first reading of the policy. The first reading. That's correct. Okay, so. And no means we do find it substantial enough to send it back to first reading. Everybody clear on that? All right, so all in favor of the amendment say yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay, so. So we got 1, 2, 3, 4. You said yes. 5. All opposed? No. No. All right, so the motion passes five to two. And student director. Yes. Yes. Okay, so five, two. With the student director voting yes. All right. Now we go back to the original discussion of Resolution 6904. Is there any more board? Oh, so I wanted to start with our public comments so then we can go to having a board discussion. Is there any. Is everybody okay with that? All right, so go ahead and do our first public comments. Jonathan Garcia. Good evening. My name is Jonathan Garcia. G A R C I A I currently serve as chair of the board of directors for the Fund for Portland Public Schools. The Fund for PPS is an independent nonprofit established in 2019 to raise philanthropic funds funds and build strategic partnerships that benefit Portland students and schools. Since 2019, our nonprofit has also served as the fiduciary steward of dollars raised by parents through the local school foundations. As you vote on the proposed changes to the fundraising policy tonight, I want to reiterate the Fund Board's confidence in efforts to unify fundraising at PPS. As our April 10 letter conveyed, the Fund for PPS board shares your goal in channeling our generous network of parents, alum and community towards a shared cause, our 43,000 students. We believe that bringing donors to an aligned cause is immediately critical and we are excited about the opportunity for the Fund for PPS to play a vital role in this effort. Anticipating the possibility that this policy change will pass tonight, our team has developed an early plan to support this transition immediately. Let me outline those emerging components. 1. The Fund for PPS will continue to administer local school foundations through June 30th and implement a transition plan and procedures for the new model. 2. We will collaborate with an experienced fundraising consultant team to create a new fundraising plan and launch a giving campaign. This plan will establish achievable milestones, financial targets, growth strategies and messaging to expand our donor base. And three we expect to expand our capacity this summer and hire additional fundraising professionals to execute on this campaign. Some details still need to be clarified. However, these three initial steps will, I believe, set the stage for the Fund to help steward our community's passionate support for public education into philanthropic giving in service of our children. And I want to be clear, our state must do better in how it funds public education. Parent fundraisers and community donations will never replace our state and federal government's responsibility to fully fund public education. But I also believe in the power of our community. But I also believe in the power of our community, its generosity, and our enthusiastic support for public education. I saw it firsthand in my role at pps the last seven years. While the Fund for PPS will spend the next few months supporting LSFs, bring fundraisers, developing a transition plan, building capacity and launching a new campaign. I want to give everyone here tonight a chance to come together, support our children and uphold the promise of public education. So if you have your iPhones or your phones, I encourage you to Visit our website, fundforpps.org Donate and set up your monthly pledge to this new fundraising campaign. Thank you. On down, I think enough questions. Thanks Mr. Garcia for being here. It's nice to see you again. How much has the Fund for PBS raised on average over the Last three to five years. I don't have that information in front of me. I wasn't prepared to answer questions. Yeah, it doesn't need to be exact, but not including the local school foundations. I mean it's, it's a few hundred thousand dollars, right? Correct. The steps you've outlined, how long do you think before those steps are effective in terms of dramatically increasing that fundraising? I think our desire is to move in an accelerated fashion. So this summer really working on again launching this campaign for the fall and beginning to really raise those dollars then. But I'm just. Is that a one year, three year, five years? I mean I'm thinking even to start, you know, set a goal of $2 million, 5 million, 10 million. Yeah, we have it. And so I think that's what I just outlined, that part of the work will be to develop a fundraising plan that identifies target. Target financial targets for the organization. Yeah, just it's the first time that the board, I think has heard about a plan for fundraising. So I'm just. But it sounds like there's not a lot of details yet. And I guess, I mean, you know as well as those also the board, given your past role, how divisive this conversation has been, how challenging do you think that's going to be to overcome as you launch a major district wide foundation? I think we, I think our community has. Is passionate about public education and I think if we steward that energy, you can raise the dollars that I think we all want to raise. I have a question, Jonathan. How are you thinking of choosing the representatives to decide where the money goes? I understand that that's a partnership or a conversation that will be had in collaboration with the board and people PPs to identify a stakeholder group of parents that can help us identify the ways in which these dollars will be distributed. I understand, you know, and our commitment as a nonprofit organization is to lift up the value the community values of racial equity, social justice, making sure that the schools that needed it the most have those supports and services. But again, it's too early to pal where and how those dollars will be used. You'd be a couple of years before figuring that out. I mean, I would suspect that we would be, if all things go according to plan, that by next summer you're distributing some money. I can't commit a specific dollar amount. But you know, if all things go according to plan in the development of a fundraising plan and execution of fundraising plan, then I can see dollars coming through. I mean, even tonight, again, I encourage folks to Visit fund for pps.org donate and start to set up a monthly donation tomorrow might be right right now. Thank you. Thank you so much. Peter Sachs. Grace Groom. Good evening members of the board. I'm Peter Sachs Sachs, parent of a first grader at Alameda Elementary School. I write policy for a living. This is not how you do it. You consider outcome. You set goals and targets. You stress test your policy. You consider various viewpoints. You look at other ways to achieve your outcome. Instead, you pursued a sham process. You selected the voices that you wanted to hear. A quick refresher in case you lost track. 1,350 parents in support of a fair process is more than the 400 odd parents who support this sham proposal of reform. It is also more than the two dozen I believe in the so called McDaniel cluster that you want as so representative. Another thing I'd like to bring up. When you rip the band aid off of something that came up last month, I think you use that to promote healing. It stings for a couple seconds. I think you confuse that with cutting off the nose to spite the face is what you meant to say. That's when you make something worse by overreacting. It is not too late to change course. Vote no. Send this back to committee. Work through the implementation considerations that you just heard from Mr. Garcia. Considerations that may take more time. Set a goal for the fund for PPS. Is it 2 million? 8 million? 10 million? Use that goal to drive how many people fund for PPS needs to hire? 2, 5, 10, 20, and set a timeline. This is called Smart Policy Making. It's an acronym. Specific, measurable, achievable, relevant and time bound. This policy as written, I'm afraid, is only achievable and time bound. It will achieve the loss of perhaps a hundred jobs and quite a lot of educational harm. And it will do it in about a year, maybe a little more. Please don't jeopardize our schools. Please don't make them worse off than they already are. Work on fixing things constructively and collaboratively. Otherwise you're showing your true colors. That you're willing to trade votes, work on your political pet projects at the expense of the students and that you're willing to ally yourselves with bullies who interrupt and heckle. You're showing that the bullies get things done when in our schools we're trying to teach kindness and respect. Thank you for your time and I hope you'll reconsider. Thank you. Good evening. My name is Grace Groom. G R O O M. I'M a PPS teacher and a parent and I'm also a member of the Community Budget Review Commission or committee which will be presenting our recommendations to the board later this evening. Tonight, the PPS Board of Directors will be voting on whether to reform the district's foundation policy which currently allows families to fundraise to pay for teachers like me at their schools. The proposed policy provides a one year transition period for our communities to come together under a district wide foundation. One big pot. After that, all school communities will have the opportunity to support all of our students through the district wide foundation raising money for staff at all schools with the representative Parent Committee making informed funding distribution decisions. This district wide foundation will be an advocacy entity that can connect with families and the community about the needs of our schools and opportunities for increased resources through transparency. At the same time, parents will still be able to organize and fundraise locally at their schools through parent organizations to pay for things, just not teachers. This policy encourages those groups to register with pps. So here we are. Public statements of support for this reform have come from over 1400 Portlanders connected to 80 PPS schools with and without foundations, the Portland association of Teachers of which I'm a proud member, the Fund for PPS and in the past the CBRC for many years. I want to thank and applaud you all and the members of the policy committee for recognizing that the time has come for this necessary change. Not inconsequentially, at a time when we have the most diverse school board ever in Portland Public Schools history, if we are to live up to our stated educational equity and social justice goals. Oregon and Portland have been slow to address this need which has resulted in a growing gap in achievement outcomes. I really hope that people realize the incredible turning point this presents for our district so that families, teachers, administrators, the community businesses, all supporting schools across our district receive a clear message from this board that we are one public school district. As a second grade teacher, I always connect moments to my favorite children's books. The story of Stone Soup comes to mind now in this folk tale, a traveler comes to a village that has been through hard times. The villagers, reeling from their hardships that they faced, are isolated, living separate from their neighbors. Sound familiar? The traveler is hungry, but no charity is found. He gathers stones to make soup which ends up bringing the villagers out with all their tidbits of food to throw into the soup. The result is a rich meal, feeding everyone and rebuilding those connections that were lost. A strong and nourished community not because anyone had everything. One more sentence. But everyone had something to share. We can bring our unique gifts, all of us can bring our unique gifts to this movement. Through collective action, we'll cultivate a stronger, more connected PPS for all of our students today and all the PPS students of tomorrow. And I think that's what everyone here wants. Thank you, Ms. Pal. Do we have any other public comments? Yes, we have Nikki Iverson. All right, for the record, my name is Nikki Iverson. I'm a parent at Buckland Elementary School. Student First, I want to thank you for the opportunity to provide public comment on the district wide advocacy and fundraising policy resolution that is on the Board's agenda tonight. For second reading, we're asking you to reject this harmful proposal and send it back to the policy committee for further consideration. There are several flawed assumptions with this proposal. One is that you are all making assumptions that parents that are hardworking and don't make a great deal of money will have the time, money and energy to spend on a general foundation. You're approving this policy in a horrible budget year without a strategy or analysis on how your board and the district will overcome the shortfall and the decrease of funding. We definitely agree with your values on equity, but your approach is significantly lacking foresight and an impact analysis. We should focus on increased increasing funding for schools that need more support. We should not do that by punishing other schools. The Buckman School foundation has been an incredible way to build community within our district and we've been able to meet new friends and families through our joint volunteer and fundraising efforts. There are three key reasons for this request. Number one, this is not how you create policy or build trust. Now more than ever, the district and PPS board needs to build trust with the community given the strikes, school closures, budget cuts and loss. Superintendent this proposal does nothing to help a single PPS student is clear it will actively harm many. This proposal advocates for the elimination of critical funding that thousands of PPS students students rely on. Additionally, it offers no immediate replacement funding source or executable plan to shore up the district wide fund. Hope is not a plan. Creating effective district wide foundation that replaces the millions of dollars currently raised at the local school level requires significant time, staff and resources. This proposal contains zero details of how or when such a difficult task will be accomplished. Importantly, there is no consideration given to how the district will convince the thousands of parents who currently give it the school level to switch to a district foundation. Most of those parents have never even been asked policy changes on such a complex and sensitive topic like school foundation fundraising deserves a thoughtful collaborative process includes all impacted voices in the community. Pursuit of this policy will only alienate community members and cause more division and already fragile. The policy should at least be delayed to implement community engagement efforts and focused schools with a detailed impact analysis before it's adopted. I am also the Water Director for the City of Hillsborough. I'm responsible for providing drinking water to 4 to 500,000 customers Washington county so I understand how challenging budget policy decisions can be for an organization. I found that phasing in implementation of new policies can have seen that have significant impacts on funding is an incredibly effective approach. Please consider a phased approach by allowing school foundations to utilize their funds up to a cap like $100,000 and then the remaining funds go to district wide efforts. A phased approach would be like implementing a pilot of the program to determine potential unforeseen consequences before full implementation. Jonathan Garcia's comments tonight were very helpful and PPS Foundation's plan would have been useful earlier in the process. However, it would be better to phase this implementation in alignment. Regarding the campaign targets from the PPS foundation, our Buckman School community would like to know how PPS will fund our additional art staff and that that makes our school an arts focused school. We have received no communication if we will maintain as an architect school with this policy change. Our children do not deserve have the luxury of affording any more cuts to their education. I would like to thank the PBS teachers, staff and board for all your time and commitment to our children and their education. This week in particular, we took Iowa as a volunteer on a tour to the Oregon Historical Society. We had to ride TriMet buses with about four because we didn't have funding for a bus. So there's just another example. Thank you very much. All right, thanks for everyone for giving your thoughts. Next we'll go to board discussions. Is there any board discussions? Okay. I said this a couple of weeks ago too. I am concerned that there is no plan. Although I must say Jonathan statement was helpful. I think there is a plan that can work if we just wait for it, but we don't seem to want to wait. But right now there's still no plan as to how the money would be raised or how it would be allocated. I think if we wait a couple of years and a little more discussion we can we can pinpoint that. I don't see there's any reason to rush this process, especially now when every dollar counts. It will take time, staff and resources, as Jonathan just said, to create an Effective district wide foundation. This policy change deserves a more thoughtful process that includes all the voices in the community. And I recognize, Julia, that there have been lots of voices, but I think we need to sit down together again without these two sides. And by the way, I talked to the other side the other day and everybody was lovely. And I've got some good information on a administrative directive, if this passes, that I sent to the superintendent in a way to make sure that everybody is included when we do raise money. I think what we really need, and we all know this is enough money for every school, so we don't even have to think about fundraisers. I've heard some people say, oh, if we don't go to the. Oh, if we don't get rid of the foundation as it is, we won't work together because the people with foundations don't think they need money. Well, of course they need money. What they raised with foundations just barely, barely helps. So we all know we need to put pressure on the state for the QEM and on the federal government to get needed dollars that have been promised for special education and are not being delivered. We also have a levy coming up. Please vote yes on the levy. So let's put our energy there. I really think taking away the foundation now with no actual replacement is not a good idea. I recommend a no vote on this proposed revision at this time. Thank you. Thank you, Dr. Scott. Thanks, Charles. Yeah, I also made the same at the last board meeting, so I won't repeat everything. But I do want to reiterate some of the key points because I think since we're going tonight is important. I do support changes to our foundation policy. I think that, as I've said many, many times, the policy should be changed. I think some of the points that people who testified tonight and have written this have made is, you know, similar to what I made before. It matters. How do we change the policy? It's not just a matter of changing it and checking the box. It's a matter of doing so in, in a thoughtful and collaborative way. This policy development process was neither thoughtful nor collaborative. It's not about the number of meetings we've had. You can't just count off and say, oh, we've had 30 meetings over the last few years. It's not about the number of times the issue has come up. It's about the substance of the meetings. It's about the intentionalism of the community engagement. That's the first principle of community engagement. And this process failed on all counts. Most importantly and I think most disturbingly for me is that this policy development process starting in September was not focused on building community consensus or lifting up all of our schools. Instead, it was focused on separating our community, pitting some schools against others, and taking something away from some of our students rather than building our district up. So, you know, if I think this policy should be changed, why am I voting against this change? It's because this policy will result in worse outcomes for our students, including our underserved students and impacted schools. Reforming an unfair policy, I acknowledge the policy is unfair in a way that harms our students, is counterproductive and something that this board should oppose. The policy change takes away staff from our students without having a pragmatic or practical approach to replacement. Glad to hear from Jonathan tonight. There was not a substantive plan there. I mean, he had three bullet points. We don't have fundraising goals, we don't have timelines. We don't really have a plan for how we're going to do this. That all should have been part of this policy development process in the very beginning. And I think its absence is indicative of the larger failure. We have 1350 people who signed a letter opposing the policy. I want to be really clear. I'm not a big fan of county emails or signatories because I want to recognize there are lots of people on both sides of this issue. So for me, it's not about saying, oh, there's 500 here, 1,000 there, 2,000 there. What it's more about is when we're talking about a policy like this that is going to have a substantial impact on our schools and our students, that it's going to take away resources from our children. And we know that. We acknowledge that. It shouldn't matter to this board when over 1300 of our families think we're doing it the wrong way. It means we messed up. How many of those families are going to give to a district wide foundation? How many of those families are going to go lobby the state for more funding? How many will support our levy? How many will support our bond in the fall? How many will consider or are already making plans to leave the district? For every family that leaves as a result of this poorly run and poorly thought out policy reform process, the district lose thousands of dollars in state funding? There is a better path. There has always been a better path and it remains open to us today. Instead of working through a divisive process that pits schools against one another, we can build a broad coalition where everyone first agrees on the problem and we work towards general consensus on the solution. I think we're going to end up in roughly the same place we are. But if we do it in the right way, we do it without alienating people and putting all those other things at risk. We can simultaneously build our district wide fundraising apparatus in a way that grows the resources available to our students instead of reducing them. It will take time, effort and resources, but I'm confident we can create a process that does that. I would urge my colleagues to open up on this policy change. Thank you, Director Bermewerts. Director Green. No, I have no comments. Director depraz. Oh yeah, thank you. I have a few comments. I just, I appreciate everybody that's weighed in on this. This is, I think that we've heard from people on all sides of the issue. But I just want to say that there's no perfect time for justice. The perfect time is in the present and right now. And right now we have an opportunity. It's not a loss, it's an opportunity to bring all stakeholders together to create a system that's equitable and that all kids can benefit from. Maya Angelou said it best when she said, you know, you do the best you can until you know better. And when you know better, you then do better. And I think we're at that point right now where we know better. I've heard from people that have said, we know the policy is inequitable, we know it has inequitable outcomes. This is the time to change it. Not next year, not tomorrow, not in two years, but tonight. We have an opportunity to make change. It will be difficult and I think we can all do difficult things. We have evidence right here in the room. Thank you, Director Wong. Yeah. I for one am excited about this change and let me tell you why. One, I like to go with facts and history. PPS with this current local foundation system is the outlier. There are other districts that have district wide foundations who raise, with similar medium incomes that raise more money per student than we do. So it is not. We are not talking about this compared to $0 or compared to this with potential. And the other thing that the reason I am really excited about this and anybody who's worked in politics knows that you need a critical mass of people to keep something going because people go in, they burn out. And if it's only dependent on three or four people, like it is in my school, they burn out and then that's, then it's dead. You need, you know, 30, 40, 50, 100, 200 people. That way people Come in and out and it keeps going. It's a machine. And the reason I am excited about this and I want to be positive is because it's not just fundraising, but it's also advocacy. A central advocacy point and one of the biggest holes we have in our district is we have so many parents that are unable to contribute financially, but they want to contribute somehow. And this gives an avenue for that. It is a new potential. It's a new possibilities as ways for people to be involved that don't have the money to do so. And people power is more important than money power. So I am. I am excited for this. Thank you. All right. Any other board comments? Yeah, I just wanted to relay what the district's doing council has been discussing. The district student council was in favor and really just echoing what my colleagues on the board said. Obviously there are some unknowns in the future, but district student council members express like a deep belief in the importance of this policy change. Anyone else? So how did we get here? We all know that Ballot Measure 5 had devastating impacts on school districts across the state, including pps. And I had a firsthand look at it because my oldest child was heading into kindergarten at that time. I also shortly thereafter got talked into running for the school board. And at the same time, ballot measure five was limiting what we could do, what our local community had traditionally been able to do, which is raise funds for our students. That put that in the hands of the state. And at the same time, they also equalized so high spending. Districts like PPS were basically held steady and they raised everybody up. So we had two things happening to PPS this same time, and it hit us very hard. And I will say that our staffing for our schools was below what I would consider the bare minimum. I mean, I had a firsthand look at. I had three kids heading into PPS at that time. So many elementary schools had little or no art, music or pe. There were no social workers. There wasn't a such thing as a climate specialist or restorative justice. Many of our middle schools had very few electives unless they had a really high population, which was more in the neighborhoods that had higher incomes. The high schools had few electives. There wasn't a robust CTE except for Ed Benson. There were larger classes, massive caseloads for counselors, really random career technical education offices, offerings across our high schools. Our textbooks were out of date because we couldn't use local options. We didn't have any resources for that, and our buildings were crumbling. Since then, we've had additions. And that was the context in which PPS decided to allow, I think at the time was sort of limited supplemental fundraising. Since then we'd have had additions to our funding at the state and local level. We have another billion dollars in student success and our local option adds $100 million annually. We've got our bonds which allows us to pay for curriculum which we couldn't pay for before, and a whole host of other things. We have the art tax and we also have ballot measure 98 which funds CTE and supports for high schools. We're in a better position today to evolve our fundraising for staff to a more inclusive, fairer, district wide model. Now is the time. Currently a small number of schools can fundraise large amounts of funds funds to buy one or more staff positions. Non foundation schools with many historically underserved students receive a modest parent grant. Not enough to really fund staff positions. And it's completely dependent actually on how much the small group of schools fundraise. So they don't even really have control of their destiny anyway. And those are. It's important to note that because often people point to, for example, extra staffing in some of our schools they get because they're title schools or because of the number of special ed students or because of they have a large number of ELL students. But the reality is most of that staff is not discretionary staff and foundation staff is completely discretionary. So essentially we have a smaller number of schools that get to keep their 2/3 and a third is distributed to a much larger group. Sort of like spreading a third thin layer of peanut butter across many schools. And then there are some schools actually that don't either get parent grants or have foundation funds. I understand why parents would use this mechanism which allows them to add staff to their schools. And as Director Scott has often said, these parents have done nothing wrong. And he's right. And that is also not a reason to not change something that doesn't align with our racial equity and social justice policies. Things have evolved and we can change with the times as we should. We've had several years of discussion and more than 29 meetings. And I want to note that I think I was at almost every single one of those 29 meetings. And they weren't just a check the box. There were opportunities for people to come and present ideas. In fact, February, March of this year, there was a second option that was put on the, that we put out there for to allow people to comment on it, amend it, change it, which would have allowed still for some limited, limited parent based fundraising for their school. But ultimately the committee decided that we needed to move ahead with the policy that moved us to one district, one public school district. I also will say about the process because I, since I was at the 29 meetings, but also would say that we had the year that you were chair, Director Scott, three full board meetings in which we discussed policy changes and had engagement. And at the time that the policy committee chair, which wasn't me, was tasked with coming up with a change the system. And in May of that year, there wasn't a change that the policy chair was going to move forward with. So she passed it back to Director Hollins and I on May 31st. She's like handed the baton back. So they weren't just meetings to check the box. I say I went to all of them. And I appreciate the many different board members have served on the policy committee and tried to think through how we could do this in a way that aligned with our values and our racial equity and social justice policy and still provide the greatest amount of support for our students. This policy combines elements from other districts policy and it also combines some elements that were brought back forward by staff and also elements that were brought forward by different policy committee members. In this case Director pass and Director Wong. But the conversations also included other board members in the past. I will say, you know, at a certain point when we were two to three years into it and we were ready to move the policy and directed Pass actually asked us to slow down. I remember being a little bit frustrated, but very important. Our racial equity and social justice policy requires us to center the voices, those whose voices have not been heard or aren't often heard in the center of the conversation. So we did slow down and we did conduct roundtables with members and leaders of school communities whose voices aren't often heard. And it really hurts me to hear people dismiss the voices that contributed to the broader policy discussion. Because that's exactly what we expect, I think for all of us that we should be doing when we are bringing a policy, substantial policy forward. And so it wasn't just a group of 17, it was, by the way, a very diverse group and leaders of their school communities. And they were pretty clear about what they felt needed to happen and the feeling of like they were getting charity and no matter how much help they got from it, maybe a partner school which had been proposed to help them raise money in their community. Like why don't they just start a foundation and raise money in their own community? We can show them how to do it. It's like all those schools communities don't. We don't have people that can raise significant hundred to two hundred thousand dollars. Scott's fundraiser is the pancake breakfast and it costs six bucks to go there to go to that. But it's more about commute and they talked a lot about community building versus fundraising and the activities that they were doing and raising funds were not only to support their students but also really in a limited way to support community building for a lot of families who didn't have the resources to write a big check to their fund. I'm going to say what the policy does and what it doesn't do. What the policy does. It starts in the 2025 school year. All fundraising for staff will happen at the district level. There'll be a designated district wide fundraising advocacy foundation and we've heard tonight from from the fund for PPs about their interest in working in partnership with the district moving forward. It also allows for a year long transition in that money raised this year for next year for staff will still be going there. So in my mind to me that's huge compromise that I feel like I'm making of allowing that to happen another year because I think about how many years that we've had this system but it is, I think it's the right thing to do to allow for a transition to allow us to set up the district wide fund. I'll say here's what the policy I want to add just a couple things I think that hasn't often been mentioned because there's been a lot of focus on the staff piece but there's a couple other things and I want to sort of point out to director give credit to Jonathan Garcia and his staff because they brought forward some other things that are important components of this policy that it says that entities that fundraise to support individual schools shall provide ways for all members from the benefiting school program who wish to participate in a fundraising event or activity to have an avenue to participate. And again if you have a ticket price for $100 got to figure out how parents who can't $100 how they can participate. School communities also shall not communicate, share or maintain expected per family or per student fundraising targets. Like you have two students at this school we expect a $500 donation or some other amount. So that's a public school system and that's not allowed. It also says that the schools will include and inform the broader school community about fundraising decision making part processes. So they're transparent, especially including families for whom the educational equity programs are meant to benefit. And then of course, just adhere to district policies, administrative directors and other statute. So those are some of the benefits of the policy. And I'll say what the policy doesn't do is, and this is another thing that I think has been circulated that somehow this is going to shut down booster clubs, PTAs, or parents raising money for a play structure, science kits or books for the libraries. This policy doesn't do any of that. It allows fundraising for all of those activities to continue. And so that should be clear to everybody. What it does do is it takes one of the most important things that a public school system should offer and says that we're going to do that. We're going to provide staff and fundraise for staff in a centralized way that's more equitable. And so from my perspective, as Director DePast said, it's always the right time to do the right thing. And that's tonight. And I'm looking forward to moving forward and working with parents, teachers, administrators, in not only passing our local options, thanks to the pet shout out Director Sullivan, but also harnessing the collective power that I know exists in this community on behalf of public schools. So I urge yes vote. I'll just tell you a little bit where I'm, where I'm coming from, and then we can go to vote. If no one else has any other thoughts or comments. When I first heard about this process, are the, the resolution coming about during one of the policy meetings, I was surprised. I told Director depraz me, sorry, Director Demetrius, that, you know, I thought the way it came about was totally wrong. I didn't use that word. I used different words. I think it did split, you know, what could have been. I feel what could have been something better or at least something more collaborative. And I talked to Director Scott as well. One of the things that keeps coming back for me is, you know, he admitted comment at a public meeting that, no, this is a racist policy. And so I just, I kept coming back to that to try to understand, you know, how keeping the status quo debunks that this is a racist policy statement, you know, and I been thinking about this for a long time and going back and forth, back and forth, forth on this, you know, and I understand that when we talk about the time is now, you know, and we need to do this now, I get this sense of urgency. I also understand that, you know, for families that are just looking out for their kids and how they're feeling, you know, so. And this is not how I feel about them, but what, how they're telling me that they feel is that they feel alienated. They're feeling like they're a bad person. They're doing something that is wrong. And I think we have to be honest with everyone that if we all could, you know, donate that much to our kids school, if we had those resources, we had the time to do that, we all would do that too. You know, we should never fault anyone from doing what they feel is best for their kid. You know, and that's, I think, that's one thing that I think holds to me is that everyone here is just trying to do what's best for their kids. If I'm trying to do what's best for my kids, I'm not going to give a hell of what anybody else thinks, whether it's one side or the other side, you know, because I'm trying to do what's best for my kid. I have only responsibility to my kid. Right? And so if I am doing that for my kid, I understand why folks want to say, you know what, we want to make sure we donate to our classrooms and we want to donate to our schools because our kids individually goes there. Now when you as a board though, we have to look at all kids, right? We can't just look at Mike, I can't just look at my kid. And looking at that is how do we continue to try to look out for all kids if there are some. And I looked at the foundation stuff and I shared with Director Scott is some schools get zero, you know, of the 33% that goes into the parent fund. What do you say to those kids? Right? What do you say to those kids who would like to get additional assistance? You know, and for me, I have nothing to say to those kids because it's not there. And I understand the moving forward and keeping it the way it is, but then I have no answer for those kids. And so I am extremely hopeful, you know, and I wasn't disheople until I actually talked with Jonathan on Saturday. That's why I had him come, because I have been calling, trying to figure out what is the plan. I told Director Bermet was that if I don't have a. If I can't see a plan, there's no way I can support it. Talk with John. He wasn't able to say everything here. He had a plan. Wasn't a great plan. It wasn't a plan that's going to give us $10 million, you know, in the next year. But it was a plan. And I think, you know, as a elected official who has to look at all of our kids, I hopeful that the plan that is put together, that is more drilled down, can be more inclusive of everyone and bringing everyone together. I think he has the vision of how to pull this division together. And I think that's for me enough to say, you know what, let's give this a shot and see what happens. Because once again I have nothing to say to those kids that gets nothing on either side. And I'll leave it that there for me. Okay. Any other board discussions? Thoughts? All right. The board will now vote on 6904 resolution to adopt revised district wide advocacy and fundraising formerly parent groups of the school's policy 7.1 0.020 p. All in favor, please indicate by saying yes. Yes. All opposed? Yes. No. Director Student Silverstein, please vote yes. All right. Resolution 6902 is approved by a vote of 5 to 2 with Student Director Silverstein voting yes. Okay. All right. Thank you. Thank you. All right, next we have a second reading of Junior reserve officer training Corp and military careers. 6.2 0.043 p. Director Bur Metwards, would you please introduce this item? Believe it or not, I don't have it in the stack of. So I think it's really important to have the policy in front of me. Okay, thank you, Chair Hollins. So we have before us A board policy 6.2 0.043. We had a first reading. First a director green brought this forward to the policy committee and ask us to consider it. We had several meetings about this topic. And I will also say it's also been a topic in the student success committee that the committee that Chair Huang is in. Chairs. I'm sorry. And the reason why part of it was in the student success committee and part of it was in the policy committee is is that the change that Director Green had proposed was a policy change about a process, not necessarily about the substance, nor was it approving a plan for a budget or a new class, which would happen in a different place. So this policy, and I want to just be clear, it only changes the title and then it adds this sentence. In consultation with and approval of the superintendent, a high school principal may establish a junior reserve officer training Corps program that aligns with PPS academic standards, policies and administrative directives. And so it's essentially a step setting up a process. It doesn't actually approve JROTC program. It doesn't allocate any resources. It's just saying here's what the process is and here's what you'd have to comply with in terms of the academic standards, policy and administrative objectives. And here's who would have to approve it. So a high school principal couldn't just go out and set up a program. They would have to be in consultation with the approval of the superintendent. So it's a pretty straightforward change. That's process change. And again, there's been a fair amount of conversation in the student success committee as well about the actual programmatic piece of it. And I expect that conversation to continue on. It came out of committee on a split vote on a 2 to 1 vote and I'm sorry, were you there? You weren't there that day. It came out in a 2 to 1 vote to recommend and this for first reading. We had our first reading. We had it on the agenda and heard public comment at the two policy committee meetings in April. And we talked about some potential changes, but made no changes in the time between the first reading. And tonight. Again, it's an edition of really one sentence. And there were lots of comments and really thoughtful proposals and discussion by the community and committee members. But the decision was made not to change anything. Again, it's a setting up the process. So you have tonight for a first reading, the policy that. Sorry. For a second reading approval that we had first read and I'm sure everybody, just for anybody who submitted comments, the board members have all received those. We had discussions about some of the elements in committee and we're here tonight. All right, do we have A motion and second to adopt Resolution 6905 Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps and Military Careers. Motion. Second. Director Green moves. Director Holland seconds. And we're going to do the same thing we did last time. Executive, Any public comments? Yes, we have three people signed up. Dan Shea, Herschel Soules and John Gruchow. Okay, first of all, my name is Daniel Shea. Shea, I am the president of Veterans for Peace PDX Chapter 72. I've been a national board member. We are an organization. Veterans from is an international organization. We have veterans in many countries besides the US These are veterans who have experienced war and know what it means to be in a war and the after effects of war. I am a Vietnam veteran. In one of the readings it was brought up, well, this is not about Vietnam. Well, yes it is. It's every war that we've had since Vietnam is about Vietnam because this country is still trying to win the war that they lost. They are constantly trying to say that we are all, you know, the exceptional country of the world and we can tell people what to do. But oftentimes that war was a lie for me. For many veterans from. Actually, we had members from World War II, Korea, Vietnam, Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya, Syria, Central America. All of these veterans are part of our organization. We also collaborate with some IDF members who will become Refuse Next or Combats for Peace. And these veterans themselves have said it's time to stop going to war, sending our kids to kill other people's kids. Now I have to tell you a war story a little bit, because why do I feel this way? I was in Vietnam and came close to three or four times, being close to death myself. And then I was in an operation called Search and Destroy. Search and Destroy means kill anything that moves. I was on humping hills for days until we finally were running out of food and water. We got up into this plateau and we were supposed to go into this village and kill anything that moves. We actually created a mutiny in the field. Veterans oftentimes in the war, refuse to go out and kill or follow orders. So there is a whole history of GI resistance that you should know about. There's a good film called sir no Sir. That is a great film to understand what happens when veterans say, we will not participate in these kinds of wars or. Or in genocide, which is going on right now in Gaza, or the students that rose up against the Vietnam War are now rising up in our campuses against the genocide in Israel, in Palestine. We need to take a look at what that means. I came home after going through that village and still dealing with that in my head, because there's different wounds that happen to you. I also was exposed to Agent Orange chemicals, and my child was born with congenital heart disease, cleft palate, and other abnormalities. And after, when he turned three in 1981, he had to go for heart surgery and went into a coma. I held him in my arms as he took his last breath and died in my arms. For me, every war, I see the children that are being killed, and we need to stop killing children. We need to stop being part of this war. We need to stop indoctrinating our kids in the high schools to become soldiers. They can make that decision after they graduate. Let's fund our schools for education, for the sports that you honor these people, and the constitutional competitions that these students do. They are extremely bright. Let's trust them and let's educate them, and let's give Them the opportunities in college and high schools and not in the military. Thank you. Thank you. Hello, I'm Herschel Soules. I was in the military but I didn't serve any military action. But I looked on the website and they talk about making students better citizens and giving them history. I mean when you go into the military you don't become a real citizen. You're not there act being an activist of any kind. You're just taking orders. And I don't think that's good training, especially not for 14 year olds. I mean give them a chance. That's before they even had a history class. And when you get history, you don't get military history in stores about battles. I mean you really get something you can kind of use out there in the life. One of the things I kind of go back to is Vietnam again. They had the My Lai massacre over there. Now this massacre wasn't created by anybody but soldiers trained by trainers. I mean they were trained soldiers and they committed this thing because they thought they were following orders and the orders were body count. It was just a terrible situation. So why would you want to have 14 year olds kind of get into these people who are kind of selling the military and they have various techniques for getting into their hides too. I go on with John here and go to war Resistors League and they used to have pull up contests on the bars just trying to appeal to young male machismo. I mean they're tricky. They know every button to push to get these guys in. So my, my idea is to give them a chance to get some history under their belts. We don't, we don't want to have the, the military gaining access to our young 14 year olds. And when they get out, they're signing a contract they can't get out of. They might have signed up for something, but they're good for three or four years in this thing. They should at least kind of let them make up their own mind, I think. So think twice about this. You're buying whatever, you're getting an instructor and paying one, but you're not really getting a good instructor. What do these people know about history except battles? It's really a crime to get these people in there with their nice uniforms or good teeth and get them to try and persuade these people to get into a uniform. I'm against it. Thank you. Hello, my name is John Giacopi. I've created a little handout as to why you should oppose a JROTC program that will be distributed hopefully by the Clerk or whoever else. But I want to speak to you on a personal level. My grandfather is a West Point graduate. My father is a retired colonel. He was a doctor in the Army Medical Corps for many years and still is, in fact, working as a civilian now in Hawaii. My brother Kyle, from the day he was born, wanted to be a Marine. That's all he ever wanted. We grew up in Fort Lewis. We grew up in Steilacoom, Washington. That's a town where military tradition runs deep. I looked up to soldiers my whole life. And JROTC programs on are extremely endemic in the Puget Sound region. They're in almost every high school. My family, growing up in that environment, moved down to Louisiana, and we spent two years at Fort Polk in Louisiana. And there my brother Kyle joined his first JROTC unit. And he was deeply disappointed. When my father retired and moved to Corvallis, Oregon, he could no longer be in jrotc, but he was still committed. He was determined to enlist in the Marines. His entire state of mind, his entire sense of purpose in life was to become a Marine. He joined the Marines. He enlisted in boot camp and was so traumatized by the experience that he killed himself. That happened in December of 2013. It tore my entire life apart. I had been told my whole life that the military was one of the most honorable professions that one could ever engage in. And it had killed my brother. And it also, and I didn't realize this at the time, but it rendered my grandfather deeply sick. He had very severe PTSD due to a massacre of children that he saw in Vietnam. And my grandfather Doopie, my step grandfather, Grandpa John, had been forced by the draft and had gotten prostate cancer as a direct result of his exposure to Agent Orange, a disease that the military, or rather the Veterans association, refused to treat for many, many years. The military, and forgive me for going over time, but just to make my point here, the military is not a career like any other career. It simply categorically is not. And having people in schools giving quote, unquote, leadership and education training, that's not true. This is a recruitment tool. This is fundamentally and exclusively a recruitment tool. And I know that this is only a process change. But what I would advise you to do, and I'd very strongly advise you to do this, is to take whatever processes you have around jrotc, however out of doubt they may be, and just shut them and put them back on the shelf and let them sit. Thank you. Thank you. And I work with the War Resistors League here in Portland. There are many reasons to oppose the proposal to bring JROTC to Portland Public High Schools and since I don't have a lot of time, I have made a list. So here we go. Number one. PPS is reportedly facing a $30 million budgetary shortfall in the coming year and JROTC would prove to be one of the district's more expensive school programs. JROTC promoters give the impression that costs to the school district would be minimal because of the federal subsidy. In fact, JROTC would inevitably lead to a net financial loss for the district. The Pentagon's share of costs decrease after the first year or two. The result is that the school district will end up using extra funds and of course there are no extra funds to in effect subsidize a high school military training recruiting program. Number four and this is really important. According to the federal statute 10 USC Armed Forces Section 2031, the Pentagon wants to exclude from membership in JROTC units physically unfit students, undocumented immigrant students, and students struggling with academic achievement and conduct. This federal statute clearly conflicts with the State of Oregon Board of Education's position that Oregon schools should be safe and welcoming to all students regardless of race, ethnicity, national origin, immigration status or documentation status. And parenthetically, if you support J O if you support jrotc, you are leaving yourselves wide open to potential legal problems. Number five. Under jrotc, school districts lose local control. JROTC is controlled solely by the military branch and the Department of Defense and the school district has no say in such matters as content of the curriculum. 6. If JROTC proves to fall short of PPS and State of Oregon educational standards or becomes unpopular with parents and or students over time, it is by design very difficult to get rid of. Number seven. JROTC would create a two tiered system in our high schools where successful students are encouraged to go to college and struggling students are steered toward the military. Number eight There is no tangible evidence that JROTC motivates students to stay in school. There is plenty of evidence that bringing back course offerings and learning hands on skills, music and the arts and opening up sports and extracurricular activities to all students can have a significant impact. Number nine. JROTC claims to prepare students to be good citizens, community leaders, critical thinkers and in reality, JROTC prepares students to be good soldiers in the next war. 10. JROTC claims to instill leadership skills, yet leadership positions within the military are largely closed to black, brown and poor students. JROTC number 11 JROTC is officially an optional elective program and yet many school districts across the country have now made the program mandatory, at least for struggling students, in order to keep enrollment numbers up. Number 12. Despite the Pentagon's claims to the contrary, JROTC is designed as a pipeline for enlistment in the US army armed forces. Thank you. I have one more. Thank you. JROTC is not really about education, but by housing JROTC in public schools and offering them carte blanche privileges, we provide the program a cloak of legitimacy. Thank you very much, Ms. Powell. Ms. Powell, do you have any other. All right, now we'll open up for board discussion. Let's start with Student Director Silver Stein. Yeah, so this has definitely been some. Something that the district student council has devoted a fair amount of time discussing. We've researched, we've spoken with the director of cte, and overwhelmingly, the response has been negative. Many different levels for many different reasons. One thing that stuck out to me was there was fear. There was also a lot of concern about funding for this because when we asked, we were told that, you know, it wasn't clear how it would be funded. It says that the fiscal impact is unknown in the report, and that is very, very concerning as we see that we're in a time of budget cuts and many vital programs are being cut. And obviously, you know, this policy isn't implementing a program. It just allows for that to be a possibility. But realistically, if a principal right now were to say, we want to implement this program and use our funding for that, District Student council sees that as a large issue, and we feel that that would be incredibly irresponsible. And so in our view, this should not even be an opt. Director Sullivan? Yes, we have had a lot of comments on this, and I would say there might have been one positive to every 500 negatives. And I am of the age where I had friends who were in Vietnam, and I remember when they came back, they would not even talk about it. And I think they maybe would talk about it with other people who'd been there, but they wouldn't share. And I know I would not want my children to be. Well, if they really wanted to go in the service and they were old enough to decide, I guess I would support it, but I would not want them exposed to it in high school and anybody trying to influence them. So my friend who was in. He was a doctor, and at that point, everybody out of medical school had to go to Vietnam, and he came back a ruined person. He's okay now, but it took a long time. So I. I guess I don't necessarily have anything totally against the military, but I definitely have. It sounds like I do, but. But I do not support having our young children exposed. I actually want to, I want to hear from my colleagues so I'm going to defer. But I do have just one question and certain Director Silverstein brought it up. But I was thinking, you know, as I was reading the staff report, there isn't a fiscal impact and I kind of curious from the policy development process why? Because I will say one of the more compelling arguments that I've heard and again our student director put forward was this idea of balancing the the cost. So I'm just curious was that something staff were asked to do or unable to do? But it felt a little incomplete in the staff. So we didn't have anything to do with the staff report. This is staff report and I think the spirit of the discussion. We had lots of discussion about Director Wong's committee having a longer conversation about the actual programming and I think there's not going to speak for staff but there wasn't any fiscal because there's no program. So it's a theoretical and so you can have staff speak. I don't know the staff. Do we have. Do you have any staff that can speak to that? I would have to do a follow up on that. I'm sorry, was not prepared for the question. Director Green. No, I'll. I'll go ahead and go because whether I go last or go first, I prepared a statement so that I wouldn't go off the rails and I have water to keep me at a level pace. So with that being said, I'll just read what I prepared today. What we are voting on is so much more than do we allow school communities who may be interested in GRTC to have the same rights and access we would any other CTE program. It is so much more than the idea that in order for one side to win, the other side has to lose. No, what we are voting on is will we be a system that provides equal opportunity to all our communities or will we prioritize the needs and desires of the loudest ones over those that may be too afraid to lend their voice to the conversation out of fear of retribution and retaliation? Will we be a system that teaches and instructs communities on what we believe they should learn and think? Or will we become a system that teaches and instructs communities how to think critically and and consider everything in front of them prior to making a decision to consider both sides of the same coin and make a decision that aligns with what they believe will be the best possible option for them, as we also prepare them to accept the responsibility and to be accountable for the outcome should it turn out that they made the wrong decision? This policy in and of itself does not direct any school community to start a JRTC program in their school. To the contrary, what it does is provide a pathway with defined guardrails and checkpoints for any community that would like to consider doing so. So why all the opposition to something that does not force a school community to do something, but rather provides a clear path for what would be necessary should they wish to consider it? I believe that it is the fear of change. Is it possible? Is it possible that it could be the fear of losing control over the minds of young people that we have gotten so used to controlling the narrative for? Could it be because we recognize that by controlling what we allow access and exposure to and systematically telling them that this is good and that is bad, that we can maintain our positions in the air Quote, we know what's best for you crew. Or maybe, or maybe, just maybe, maybe it's the fear that they start to think critically for themselves and challenge everything, even the things that we tell them, that there would be a shift in the power dynamics and the privileged position of some would be threatened. Whatever the reason is, whatever the reason we are fighting this movement so hard is, it must stop now. It must stop for the same reason that we provided gender neutral bathrooms in all of our schools. It must stop for the same reason we provided sensory rooms. It must stop for the same reason that we provide shop classes and for the same reason we support every other CTE program that we offer. We need to vote yes on this policy because although it may not be for everyone, the community that does need it should have access to it within our public school buildings. We must vote yes because as a public school system, we have an obligation to prepare our students for all possible career paths, not just the ones that we like or deem valuable. And when they decide that they are interested in pursuing something, we should be there to support their decisions. What we cannot do is tell them that they are making the wrong decision. But there is something inherently wrong with them and their decisions simply because they desire to do something that we have an inherent bias against. Now, I was told before that we should delay this moment to give people the opportunity to better understand what is being suggested in hopes that this would allow others to join us in this decision. And to that I say the right time to do the right thing is Always. Right now, we are a public school system. We are not the board. Collective assimilation is not the objective. Creating a space for where all students can thrive, even when they feel that they need. What they need is something different than what we feel is best for them. Thank you so much for your time and thank you so much for listening. Thank you. Thank you. Hi, Director of the Pass. I find it disturbing when people boo. It's okay to have your opinions, but including Director Green, I would love to just, if it were up to me, just wipe this policy off the books for lots of reasons. I've read through every piece of testimony on this and have considered both sides, but I'm not going to vote for this. Not the least of which is the claims of sexual abuse in the military, the training that's specific to careers in the military and not not for careers outside of the military, the incidence of ptsd, of injuries, of the rate of homelessness that's higher in veteran communities, the suicide rate of veteran communities, the indoctrination of programs like this that do not support critical thinking. You basically need at this level of entering into the military, you need to be able to follow orders regardless of whether you agree with them or not. And that's a trained skill that's trained in these programs. I'd rather like to see in our district opportunities for kids, our students, to have access to green jobs, the jobs of the future, the solar panel installations, the technologies that will help us find renewable fuel, replacements for fossil fuels, battery storage options, and those kinds of careers that will be in high demand in the future and are starting to become in demand now. I've read some testimony today from a mother of a 14 year old who was groomed here in Portland by a military recruiter. And that's really disturbing to me as a mother of two kids. I'm just. I'd rather focus on academics than military training. It's just there's no place for it in our system. Thank you, director. Yeah, I am conflicted here because there's two things I want to. I think I'd still continually be a little. I'm a little frustrated that, not necessarily talking about and discussing the facts. What I mean by that is two things. One of the things that came up when we talked with Chris Brida and his research with JROTC and other districts is that one of the things that a lot of districts complain about was that when JROTC did enter the school, they, the district felt like they didn't have control of the curriculum and it was out of their hands. This policy actually puts protections against that because it says that the program has to align with PPS academic standards policies and administrative directives. The other thing that I also am kind of conflicted about is that the way it is now, there's nothing really to stop someone in the system to actually start the process of JRO2C. And if we vote no on this, there's still nothing in the system that prevents someone from starting the process of implementing JR2C in school. If we vote yes on this, there's also nothing that stops anyone from starting the process, but they have to go through all these processes. So I actually, when I looked at this policy, it says in high school, that has to align with PPS academic standards approval. Superintendent aligned with policies and administrative directives. I actually think that this policy actually makes it harder to implement JROTC in our schools. And I just want to be 100% honest. The likelihood of JROTC being implemented in a Portland school is pretty unlikely. I just want to be straight up honest. The number of students that are out there that I think are interested in GRTC is probably not big enough to support in any school. What I don't like, and I reiterate this before with a few of our directors, is that I don't really. I'm a minimalist. I don't like clutter, I don't like things I don't need. And one thing that I don't really. Again, I have to look at the JROTC curriculum. From what I hear from both sides, it's conflicting. But I would have to look at it, decide whether it's actually appropriate or not. But at the same time, the. There's the punchline. It's been a long night. I need to go to bed. What I think the truth of the matter is that I think I actually would like to propose an amendment. One of the problems, I think, with school systems in general, and this is not so much the case now as it was back then, but I don't know if you remember 20, 30 years ago, this was a big problem, but there was a lot of kids being pushed into French classes. Sorry, I don't mean to pick on French teachers, but this is a real example from my personal experience. And I remember asking a principal once, like, why we keep pushing all these kids into French classes when they're not even interested. Spanish was more relevant to them at the time. And the answer was blunt and straightforward. They said, we have too many French teachers. It's not so much a problem. Today, I know hopefully no one remembers this because that's a good thing. But one of the things is I am worried about one of the biggest concerns I have, and I talked with Director Green about this and reiterate, and he was supportive, was that we don't want this students to serve the system. We want to make sure that the system serves our students. And I think what I don't want to see is that again, like I said, I don't think this, this policy makes it any easier or harder to implement jrtc. The most likelihood what's going to happen, no matter what the vote is that there was never going to be a JRTC in any of our schools. What I don't want to happen is that we are pushing students into a program to keep it to open. So I don't know if we want to discuss. I don't want to sabotage this as well. I don't mean to, but my amendment is at least a sentence that says something that no program should be sustained by recruiting students to sustain enrollment. Make sense? I think it's like, no, the program cannot be. Cannot be upheld by pushing students. Let me try that again. The program cannot be sustained by pushing students into enrollment. Before you, before you fully form the amendment, one thing I might suggest is to make it just like we didn't want to push kids into French class, that you make it not specific. So that, I mean, I don't think we would want. I don't think we'd want. She said our programs should be in service to our students versus the other. Oops, sorry. Versus the other way around. So, okay, so I guess. I guess my. I was kind of. I have the same opinion as Director DEPass. One of the things is I'm not personally supportive of military careers. I respect everyone who chooses that choice and has served. And you have my fullest respect. I don't mean anything by this, but that's my bias. And one of the things that's also very important to me is I don't want my bias to. I believe everyone has the right to choose their own path. So if we are truly going to create an unbiased system, I think the people who know our students the best are their parents, are their community members, are their school, are their teachers or themselves. And they're the ones who know them best. They're the ones who should decide. And I think that if we were to create a truly unbiased, you know, whether your opinion is of one thing of the military or another, whatever, I would prefer to Move in a direction where we just, I mean, military has a specific. The policy used to be called military recruitment. And then it doesn't actually have anything to do with military recruitment. It just says, oh, a teacher can provide information if you want. I know, I'm bambling. Are you going to do an amendment or can I just ask a clarion? Because I'm actually confused about the point that me too have no limit on jro, RTC or now. And I don't know if that's accounts the question for general counsel or my board members, but it feels pretty factual. Do we have a limit on JRTC programs now or not? Because I was under the impression we did. This policy would, would lift that limit. But I'm hearing something different. No, we have nothing. So what are we doing here? What we're doing is we are creating a pathway that says should a JRT or should a school want to bring in a JROTC program, that it has to go through the same rubric, the same rhetoric, the same guidance as any other CTE program that we offer within the schools, no special privileges. So if it's about the teacher, the teachers would have to go through the same thing that any other CTE that has to get a license or a temporary license or certification, they would have to do that. If it's about the school would have to do the same thing that they do with any other CTE program, meaning that the school itself has to take it to their site council, they have to take it to their students. There has to be something from their community that says that they, that this is something that they want to do. And then they, with that, then they can present it to the, to the team that looks at all of the other CTE stuff. They can present it to that team and say that this is what we want to offer. The reason that we are doing this to get to your questions, because the question is why would we do it? The reason that we would do it is because right now there is an overhanging fear from schools that may be interested in this that this is not something that the board would say that they want to do, that we would push back and we would somehow force them to not be able to provide something because there are no guardrails. The same way that they have to get they, they have to figure out the funding for anything else, any other CTE program, they would have to consider that what they would be making the decision on is whether or not they feel that this is the right and appropriate thing to do. For their school after they've gone through that, the same way any other CTE program has gone through. They've gone through the evaluations. They've met with their students, they've met with their community. They've done all those things. And if at the end of the day, they feel like this is what they want to do, then what we are providing is guardrails to say, all right, if you've done everything, then you can. If you haven't done everything, then you need to go back and do that. Why is it specific to JROTC and not for lct? Because there's no language right now that. That says so. Let me just to your point, like, we form CTE programs at schools all the time. Maybe I'm the only one up here. I assumed JROTC was not allowed because, you know, I hear everyone talk about how Portland Public Schools got rid of it, you know, years ago. But what I hear you saying is any school could have done this at any point in time, and couldn't they have just followed the same thing? If they're adding a shop program or a business program or an engineering, like right now, it's the fear of retaliation. No, except it's the military. That's the difference. So we keep bringing up. We keep bringing up, like, these different things that have happened, and I'm not one to go here, but we keep bringing up the. The different things, like the sexual abuse that has happened within the military. Are we gonna talk about the sexual abuse that has happened in pps? What I'm talking about. What I'm talking about is not about us doing anything different for one. It's about creating same for all. If they should go through the process and should they feel that this works for them, then why are we telling them, based on our biases, that this is a no? I keep hearing people say, well, what about the students? And I respect Student Director Silverstein so much because she goes to the meetings that I ain't been to, and she speaks with the kids that I haven't talked to them all. But I also know. Please. But I also recognize that the DSC does not represent all the students within pps. I also know from having been to some of the DSC meetings that the DSC is a. Is a quite close collective. They all. They're not in every school. So the different kids and the different communities and the different spaces are not always all represented. So she has a close connection with the students and her DSC council. Are we gonna dismiss. Are we gonna Dismiss the students that other people have connections with and say that their voices don't matter because they didn't take it to the DSE Council to get it approved. I'm not saying that what the students want in the DSE Council is not. It's not fair. I'm saying, is it the end all. That's all I'm bringing up. I have a clarifying question. Okay, so just like for clarification, what was your specific motivation for bringing this up? Like, did students reach out to you? Is that why I submitted a letter? I believe that a student, an anonymous student, gave to me. So this is what really gets. I need some more water. I need some more water. I need some more water. Hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on. I get it. Because I got to twist the top. So it's funny how. Yes. To answer your question, yes, a student came to me out of concern that if they shared. If they shared what they really wanted, that the counselor at their school would withhold scholarship opportunities for them because they completely disagreed with their position, that they had talked to this counselor and said this is what they wanted, and the counselor had told them that, well, it's okay, but you don't have to do that. You can do this and you can do that. So my question becomes. My question becomes, at what point. At what point does the. The thought and idea of the counselor and the parent or the different one. I shouldn't say the parent, because if we're going to go there about the parent, then we need to go there about how it's okay for us to send kids down to the nursing office and get all these other different things that parents don't have a vote in, because that's what a parent wants to do. I mean, a kid wants to do. So if we're going to talk about one thing, we have to talk about all the things. That's all I'm saying. Okay. I also want to add that my. Yes, that is a good thing to bring up. The district student council is not all the students in the district cannot represent all the students in the district. But I also want to add that my conversations were not just with district student council members. And obviously there are going to be varying opinions. So I respect that. But I think that it is still important to recognize that. And like the students I have spoken to have been overwhelmingly opposed. I just. Any other board members want to speak? I had just a couple comments, and one was that I'm not necessarily against the ROTC in college. JROTC at the college level, because you're going to enter, if you choose to go into the military, you're entering in at an officer level and you're not a recruit. And the other thing is that there was a line in the policy that I was concerned with and it says that in consultation with an approval of the superintendent. And as we're going through a superintendent search process right now, we're going to be interviewing superintendents. I would be afraid or concerned that we might use this as a deciding factor. And that that's disturbing. I know that's dark, but my mind kind of went there as I was reading through this. If the approval of this policy requires the approval of the superintendent or the approval of the program, and we're interviewing superintendents and we've got two great candidates, what's not to say that we use the idea that they're either for or against JROTC as a deciding factor? It was just a concern. I might be the only one that came up with that, but I know there's seven of us, but I wanted to voice that because it's a concern I had and maybe I'm the only one. Yeah. Well, I hope that we're going to use our criteria that we laid out to recruit our next superintendent with our board goals around student achievement front and center, just like we did with our recruitment for our interim superintendent. I don't know how you feel about the JROTC before I speak to the policy, I just want to acknowledge everybody has a different perspective about the military and there's lots of different perspectives. And so there's many people who are looking at the policy but really sharing their perspective about the military. And so I want to, just before I make some brief comments, just say that I respect those who have served our country in the military. My father served stateside in the Air Force during the Korean Conflict. My chief of staff, Eric Zimmerman at the county is a major in the Army National Reserves. Great respect for Beaverton Mayor Lacy Beatty, who's a veteran, and State Rep. Taree Tran, who's a lieutenant colonel in the Oregon Air National Guard. My respect for them and their service does not diminish others experiences which were not positive. And we've heard that. And I think it's just important to acknowledge that there are people who have different experiences. For some people, it's very much the pathway or their ticket to a career. And so I just want to start off by saying that because I think how we feel about the military is being conflated into how we might Vote on the policy. So I'll say I elected into a year of ROTC in college, which my parents were a little, kind of shocked about. Like, I was a little bit of a wayward. I came out of. I had a PE teacher who really influenced me in grade school and I wanted to be a PE teacher, but then I wasn't really quite sure. And so some. I forget how I sort of signed up for it, but I found it very interesting. It was one of the first times I'd had a class in leadership. Ultimately, I decided it wasn't the career route. I had a couple turns from then on. I never became a PE teacher either. But that experience for me was just part of going to college. I think there is. Well, I think we also expect that of our students. I mean, we've seen our students tonight who came from the. The Khan team. We want our students to be exposed to, I think, a whole host of different ideas and careers. And so I can have my opinion. Ultimately, I decided it wasn't the career route I wanted to take, and I didn't feel at all pressured to continue. I do think that it's an option for some and that ROTC and JROTC programs give students a chance to see if it's a career that they would want to pursue. And I'll just close by what I said at the very beginning. This policy, I believe, builds in safeguards, and it's not the approval of the program. It doesn't allocate any money. And I very much think there's a whole other discussion that needs to happen, not necessarily in policy committee. And I'll just say we also talked to the policy committee that there is a district committee that courses need to go through and the academic and educational leaders of the district review any new courses and it would go through that. So from my perspective, it's approving a process that's very transparent. Parent. And I don't think it is approving a program, but rather it's approving a process. Thank you. Dr. Scott, one question. Yeah. Oh, sorry. I just wanted to reply to the earlier comment. I just had one more thing before I kind of got cut off a little bit really quick, actually. Again, this policy, I think, makes it a little bit more like a bit more difficult because we have, it says right here it has to align with policies and administrative directives. We do have a policy or, sorry, no administrative directive and a resolution against military recruitment. And if what a lot of our public commenters have said that JROTC is a public recruitment tool. If that's true, then this would prevent JROTC from being implemented. Right. So this is, in effect, putting very strong guardrails in terms of what we can and can't do. Thank you. Yeah. I have one question. I don't mean to put you on the spot, but did you see the testimony from the three students at our last. I think, our first reading, we had three students go and testify about how important this program was to them in their lives. And I'm curious whether that weighted it on the TSC conversations. I think that, yeah, I think that it is really, really important to value all the different voices that are coming to decision. So I do want to make that known that, like, I see that there are varying opinions. Thank you. Thanks. I think. Yeah, I'll be fast. I've got some pluses and minuses, and it's probably going to irritate everyone on the road because then I'm gonna send to the punchline. I think we should send this back for more discussion. For me, the reason to move forward. I really agree with you about the opposing political views perspective on this. And I want to be really clear. I am very opposed to the military. I'm very opposed to sort of. I attended a Quaker church in high school. I was a conscientious objector when I was forced to register for the draft. So I've got a pretty long history of opposition to that. And I get very, very concerned when we, as a border, as a district, try to impose political views on our students. I think your words through that have been pretty powerful. And we look at other states and other districts that are doing this throughout the country, and we say, oh, my gosh, that's horrible that you're doing it. And I think we need to turn the lens on ourselves, too. Right. And say, are political views influencing what the opportunities we're giving our students. That is one thing, the close call. And the other thing for me was the testimony. Again, the students, and I know they weren't all PBS students, they were former students. But, you know, we talk about listening to the voices of students and through students of color, talked pretty powerfully about the positive impact this would have. The things that concern me in the negative column, the cost and the funding issue, I'm concerned that we haven't done that fiscal analysis, because I think all of our CTE programs have costs, but every school needs to consider those. And there do seem to be some different factors, and it's pretty complicated. And I know a lot of the emails we've gotten talk about the funding that the military gives, the district gives and how long it lasts and what needs to happen. And I don't feel well enough informed about the potential fiscal impact. In particular, since the staff report says, yeah, we have no idea, just shrugs. I'm really concerned about the exclusion of certain students. And I want to know more about that because I think to the extent we're excluding, you know, or excluding immigrants in our schools, we're excluding students with disabilities. That is a core value of the district for all of our programs. And it raises a really important question of if the JROTC hasn't thought through that, I want to make sure they do that before we bring that into our schools. And then the process, honestly, we talked a lot about process, about policies. It's. And this one has moved pretty quickly. And I don't. We've got. I don't know, we had 100 people here, maybe more. I don't want to. I don't want to further the drama, but at the same time, I feel like having a longer process, a more engaging process where we ask some of these questions and get some answers will help us craft a better policy. And I'm also going to acknowledge that I got very confused tonight by the idea that we don't need this policy to do jrtc and that by doing it, we actually make it harder. That felt like bizarro world. And for me, I'm not ready to vote on this. So I would ask that you refer back to the policy for more conversations about those things. Yeah, I really agree with that because I want to emphasize that I think, like, for me, at least, like, the thing that is coming up is the funding question. Because. Because I think, like, that is the first and foremost thing. Because, like, when we asked the director of cte, it was not clear. And then I also just like, I very much agree with that there needs to be a longer process because also in our Q and A, we were informed that there would only be allowed to be three schools that offered it if, like one for each branch, which is what we were told. So I don't know if that's accurate or not, but that's coming up for me because if there are all of these unknowns, I don't feel like something we could endorse. I just have some few words to say and then if anyone else has something to say or not, we can go to vote. You know, this has been a really interesting conversation. Just the fact that we can come here and protest and tell our opinions you know, on our own. That's actually what came from the military to be able to have the right to speak. Absolutely. It costs a whole lot of lives that we benefit from now. Right. And so. So the thing is that the, the, the fact that. I'm not gonna take a drink. I haven't got nothing in there. When we talk about CTE cost, right. When we introduce a CTE program, it don't usually come to the board, you know, and so that's something that I feel that if this, if a school community wants to do something, and that is, that will take the same steps as any other CTE program that has to get analyzed for that school. We don't get bored. Thoughts on how much is our art class, our automotive class, or electrical classes. So I don't. I'm not really worried about the cost analysis piece of it because that's usually based on school by school basis when you talk about cte. That's why some schools have different CTE courses than others. You know, when I look at the policy and I think I'm aligned with Director Wong here, I think it's. For me, it's more of saying, if this is something a school community wants to do, these are the guardrails. The thing that has to happen. As far as experiences with jrotc, my family is in a lot. Almost all my family are in military. My cousins was on the east coast, was in jrotc. They had great experiences, you know, and I know that's not everybody experience. But when we talk about experiences, it's. We only talk about one side of the experience when we talk about CTE courses. And I'm in apprenticeship trade. The same issue that you guys are talking about now is the same issue that happens in the electrical trades, in the plumbing. Oh, I'm at the meetings. I'm at the meetings where these things in electrical apprenticeship programs happen, where racism stuff happens, where discrimination happens. I'm at those meetings. I actually have an apprenticeship program. So some of the same things that we're talking about here. This is a systematic thing all across a lot of industries, not just jrotc. That's all I wanted to say. So when we're making those comparisons, we have to realize that, yeah, sexual harassment happens in all industries. Discrimination happens in all industries. So that's all I'm gonna say about that. So once again. Once again, okay, this is. This is one warning. Thank you. So that's all I have to say about that. And now we can go ahead and go to vote. I just had one more thing to say. When you talk about giving everybody the opportunity, those three young men who talked to us about the service and how important that was to them, they went into the service after high school and they had found it very positive for them. And they were thinking back and saying, gee, I wish I'd had that when I was younger, but who knows? And I just almost feel like we need to protect our children, our 14, 15, 16 year olds. You wouldn't send them to learn. I mean, well, you do send them to learn about drugs, but about how bad they are. But you're not going to, you're going to be careful with them. And I just think if they want to go into the service when they're 18, I mean, even 18 is pretty young as far as brain development, but 14 is really young. And when many people are saying, and maybe they're wrong, I don't know, but a lot of people are saying it is a place for recruitment. And it looks like in everything I've read, besides all the emails that are coming, that that's the case. So I think it's our job to protect our children. And I think that's something. May I have another comment too? And that's just that I'm also not ready to vote on this because it is, the policy as it's written is very confusing. And it's also, what's confusing to me is why are we so adamantly trying to make it harder for a program that we seem to be advocating really strongly for? So I just, I'd like to. I think that policy needs some development. I don't think it would hurt us to do a better job collectively to craft something that really does what it says it's going to do. Is it actually making it harder or is it opening a door? And that from the way it's written, I don't understand. I literally, I don't know how much education you need, but I don't understand the way it's written. And I also don't understand kind of where the advocacy is coming from. From if it's one thing to make it more difficult to get the program in our schools, it's another thing if we're adamantly trying to get the program in the schools and I'm confused about which we are. So I would advocate that we put this off, that we go back to policy committee and we write a stronger something that makes sense. It's not stronger, but it's. I'll make a motion to say this back for more conversation Policy committee. So we have an amendment. I would second that. I mean, there's no reason we need to vote tonight on this. Hold on. I don't need no help. I have legal counsel for that. Thank you. So we have a motion on there. Do we address that first? There's a current pending motion for the resolution. I think you can vote on the motion on the table and then get to the next step. I also think in the spirit of being clear, and if what you want to do is take a vote to send this back to committee and decide if that's what the will of the board is, I think it's perfectly fine to do that. It's clear what the intentions are. If that fails, you can go vote on the motion on the table. Okay, so if it's okay with everyone, we can take a vote on the motion to send it back to committee. Everybody okay with this? Doing that? So I think on our policy. On our policies, when it comes to our second reading, we have the option, five options. One of them is to defer the policy proposal for further discussion or action. So that's what I'm asking the board to do. Okay, so how about we take a motion vote on the motion to send it back to the committee? So, well, a motion with a yes would mean we'll send it back. Motion with no, then we'll move on to the. The first motion. All right, so all in favor of sending this policy back to committee, say aye. Oppose? No. No. Abstain. Abstain. Any more time to think about this? It. It fails. So, you know, you have the motion on the tables. Okay. All right, so now we can vote on the original motion. Any other further discussion? All right, the board will now vote on 6905 Junior Reserve Office Training Corp and Military Career 6.2 0.043 p. All in favor, please indicate by saying yes. Yes. Yes. All opposed? No. No. No. Okay. Director Silver Stein votes. It would be a no, but I would have been in favor of deferring it back to the committee. All right. Resolution 6905 is approved by voter 43 with students who resigned voting no machine. All right, so guys, we're just going to. We're just going to go. We're just going to go to the rest, but they're not going to stop. All right, thank you. All right, we're going to reconvene the board meeting tonight. We're going to move some things around because of time. I'm going to have our cbrc. CBRC report done. I Do want to ask the board around the modernizations for OT Wells and Cleveland if we can move those to Thursday. Everybody okay with that? Okay. We'll have some habitat. That's why I'm asking the board now if they want to move it and they gonna be here till like 1 o'clock and I might go be here so. So I won't be able to make Thursday. No, no. I can't either. I can't wait. I can't either. It was. I think it was just put on our calendars today. So do we have to. So if there Dan can speak to the timing and the options. Yeah. So late you guys have been here. The two day changes impact the project runs. We're not going to have. We also won't have all staff available as well. So if decision would change. They will do that. But it's. It's. You're not going to have questions. The question do we. Are we gonna have whether it impacts the schedule or not? We're not going to have four people. Then can we do it another week? That's what my question would be as well. How late can we go before the math. So the action today approves the team's movement to formal design. So the projects have tight schedules. So the longer we wait the longer delay being designed and the design smack design would bring up a lot more team members as well. So that would really ramp some pretty dramatically and so just starting to add more risk to the project. I mean I will say so does it make it any easier if we do a virtual session? I mean I was going to say do board members have a lot on the master plans? I don't have. So I have two. I'll just say the two issues that I've shared with the board beforehand. Just the question about fundraised wells with Hillsville. So it's not like we could get to it tonight. I'll say the Cleveland one. I might have a bigger issue. Just it may be a lot. I didn't understand until just five weeks ago what the sports setup was for what's being proposed sports wise. Why don't we just. Yeah. So we just keep going. Yeah. All right. Let's maybe advantage everybody to keep it brief too. And let's start with. We'll start with the CBRC report. Thank you. I'm Mariah Hudson. I'm the co chair for cdrc. I'd like to introduce. This is Stefan Lunder and we have Roger Girschner here. And I just want to recognize that Roger has served 15 years on this committee and I want to thank him. So our job as your committee is to review the PPS budget and to track the issues throughout the year. Here are recommendations for the year we prepare budget as proposed with four goals around third grade reading, fifth grade mathematics, eighth grade writing and secondary school graduation. Kind of the core messages for the year here for us. As always continued advocacy and state on funding and includes and really the increase in student facing and direct service positions and lead to decreased classes. We recognize the budget conditions around that but also recognize students. So we look first, you know kind of at the larger climate trends including the structural challenges around revenues not in pace with expenses. I won't delve into that as the board is well aware. And also the uneven educational progress. We noted that graduation rates took a little bit of a dip especially for our black and brown students this past year and that there was a persistent racial achievement. And we also note in climate trends the financial and structural time impacts of old strike. So delving in a little bit declining enrollment. We have recommendations around this to engage in outreach efforts. That's kind of continued recommendation. We note that with costs rising faster than revenues our recommendation is in planning to continue to revise budgets to maintain that 5% reserve which school. But it's a policy. Thank you. And to long term address the deferred maintenance EPS schools which we know the board is well aware of that. But those costs and our recommendation reforms to be a budget process. We want to note some positive things that you're had kind of the highest level of public engagement in the CBRC process. We have the most diverse CBRC that we've had and fully staffed CBRC for some years in a row. Now our recommendations here are to share school summaries with schools and PTAs. I think what we especially mean with that is the budget book does have those, especially the second budget book. But pulling those out and sending those two pages to schools I think would make it enormously accessible. Probably not create all that much staff work to just do that piece and send the executive summary. I think it would help schools understand what they're looking at. We recommend conducting more budget surveys. Again cognizant of budget constraints around that sort of survey but sharing those information and results. We looked at the continued application of racial equity and social social justice lens and our recommendation there is continuing to read through. So looking at the budgetary decisions that are in alignment with portals prioritizing direct sales to our students we know that staff is really attempting to craft a budget that minimizes the impact of deduction and direct support to our students while maintaining core operations. And as the superintendent noted with the presentation of the budget a couple weeks ago, this is getting increasingly we recognize that the 2425 budget continues to practice the practice of determining staff allocations based on different editorial staff staffing model and that's designed to provide more funding, direct support services and schools serving student populations with highest needs. We recognize that. So our recommendations here again is prioritizing those student facing positions especially with the high levels of need coming out of COVID that seems where where staffing is making the greatest impact. We support the continued analysis of contracts. We've seen that this past year, the ability to consolidation and eliminate unfilled positions and the analysis of all investments direct and indirect and services we had. I will just note considerable discussion on the CBRC around the proposed changes in library staffing. Particularly some of our student members have a really detrimental impact. Looking at the K through 8 level reduction of those hours and thinking about that in terms of literacy goals. Moving on, I want to note here particularly on our recommendations the equity allocation of 8% staffing model target schools has held steady since I believe it's 2016 2017. We continue to support that investment and the change from 8 to 4% if it's not bolstered by support and other forms is a significant change. We want to note that and kind of closely track that in the coming hundred years. We support the efforts to close the educational opportunity gaps during summer and other intercessions with continued investment in this we recognize the importance of providing summer acceleration academy for students with highest needs and not just those scoring above the 10th percentile in certain academic tests. We also acknowledge this year's community based organization requests CDO requests for increased funding and recognize those based on funding continuing to fund those with those with a record of strongly positive educational outcomes. And we had questions as we reviewed the budget. 66% cut in the TAG program funding that was noted in the budget as something that was happening at a level that matched current enrollment needs. And so there was a question I guess that we had around if TAG enrollment was dropping by 2/3 that was accurate as we also looked at the investment in instructional coaches and professional development. Our recommendation here is to prioritize class sizes and current students support positions over additional investment and instructional coaches or paid release, professional learning and collaborative planning time. We know some of that is built into the contract and the exception here we really wanted to note and call out is the early literacy intervention Interventional is providing direct service to students. But that is so closely aligned with the third grade reading goal and the development of early capacity that we felt that should be exempted from our recommendation in terms of social emotional supports. Again, this is an area that's probably facing cuts and we recommend maintaining current levels if at all possible and targeted investment to make progress toward academic if possible. We recommend reducing the counselor ratio particularly in K through 5s and K8s to the QEM level. Again we realize some of these things are wish list things rather than maybe current budget. And we had a lot of questions around special education. So our recommendations here are really around reviewing the changes that are being made around the changes in FTE moving toward school psychologists and speech language pathologists that are being used to offset reductions. How that's being used to offset reductions classified staff. So we just kind of want to monitor that shift to the neighborhood model of services and see how ensure that children are receiving the same level of services. Delve into this too far here but we recommend allocating more direct service FTE to the early literacy in grades K through 2. That includes high dosage tutoring and starting that earlier in kindergarten rather than waiting until grade three. That aligns with the instructional coach's recommendation as well and increasing as possible the number of early learning acceleration specialists to allocate MT with that targeted intervention. Reading is just so foundational to all the other boards there with you know it's hard to know whether a one year deficit is a trend at the beginning of a trend or not. So you want to be careful about inferring too much from a year especially. But we did note that graduation rates and so our recommendation here is just for more information on multiple pathways and to to provide those for graduation alliance reconnection services and so forth. A part of this work is the local option levy review and we just want to Note that in 2223 the refunded 922 teachers with increased staff costs and the reduction in kind of levy funds that will fund fewer teachers in the coming year in 2324 that's 800 to your owed to the teachers. And that concludes our fairly quick budget overview. Holidays a lot. So thank you. Any more questions? Thanks. Whatever you do. Sorry, I have some questions and they're going to be pretty direct so I just, I don't want that to take away too late. So I want to do all the flowery like thank you so much for your service because it really is important just did it and I know probably doing a little bit better because it is a lot of work and you do dive deep and it's great and it's really helpful. With that, though, also comes some responsibility because of course, we use your reports and I think other stakeholders use it substantively and sometimes it could use politically. And so there's some questions in here I have that you don't necessarily need to answer tonight, but I would be interested in CBS thoughts on it. And you mentioned it a little bit in your presentation that a lot of this is a wish list. I think one of the things that struck me is I went through this. Your trade offs were created in this report. So there's a lot in here about, boy, we really think you should do this and this and this and this. When I'm reading through it, I'm like, yep, sure, I would love to do all those things. And I didn't see, and maybe I missed it in the long report, but I didn't see sort of that sense of like, so where would that, where would that come from? Right. If we wanted to add all those things back. And I appreciate it. If it truly is a wish list, I guess what I would ask is that the CBRC, clearly we don't think the district can fund all these things, but we think it's something to keep a focus on in this year and future years. Because I think that puts a different spin on it in public than someone who can look at this and say, well, the CBRC said you should fund librarians. They said you should fund these different positions because then that it makes us the ones who have to say gamble, but we don't have that money. So that was one thought. So let me respond. Yeah. I wouldn't say it's completely wish list. We do still prioritize student facing conditions very strongly in our report here. And the slide that staff just pointed over, Alexander pointed out that I skipped over very quickly was our subtle staff slide here. And we do recommend very carefully reviewing that for redundancies for further reductions and possibilities there. So that's one area that's a great segue to my next question because one of the things that I noticed you, you do, you know, you talk about that probably my first three or four years on the board. The CBRC and Roger obviously remember this, the CBRC was really adamant that they felt we had cut too deep on central office and that they really felt like the district was at a breaking point and needed to take a serious, to take a really serious look at whether you should do that. The last two years, last year and this year the CBRC has really done a 180. And so this might be a longer question, but do you think that prior CBRCs were wrong or has something changed? Because we've cut even deeper in those positions. And so it is challenging for me as a board member to sort of say, hey, look, you're really at a danger point here. And then all of a sudden today it's like, no, no, no, we think you should review that. And that goes to sort of a related question, which is that you talk in here about analyzing to make sure we analyze the indirect services. You don't ask for the same thing around the direct positions. And I'm curious as to why it feels like there's a little bit of a sense of, well, you better look at those admin positions because they're probably wasteful, but you don't necessarily need to look at student facing positions because obviously they're good. And I don't think that's what you meant, but that was the impression I took from the report. And then that kind of also segues to my very last point, which is you put a lot of focus in here on class size. And as I'm sure you know, evidence on class size being determinative for student outcomes is pretty weak. It's not zero, but it's pretty weak. And particularly when you made a strong recommendation to focus on class size instead of instructional approaches that didn't seem in line to me with best practice or research. So I'm kind of curious if. And that one you might. I would be curious to respond to, like, why did the CBRC say class sizes were the most important thing versus these other interventions, which ingredients would show have a bigger impact? Did you have a. Did you have a comment? I think yeah, something that can take a step at that. So, you know, so I'm only superseding this for second year. So obviously I decided to speak to previous ones. We heard that last year as well. So I think it's something. So, you know, it's hard to say what's the right place. I think like one thing that came out during the, you know, during the negotiations with the teachers was that somewhat higher than the office or administrative layer. So maybe that that's kind of like informing a little bit our. I think what I want to. The reason why we put that in there is because we learned that there's pretty significant cuts in this area. And all what we want to say is what are the implications of that? So there's two options here. Two Extreme options. So one option is we have no implications. And this is just. I don't know what it then would have done the other one. And I think that's more realistic one is where it has some issues on the functions of possible. Yes. Schools. Right. And so that was really the only. The only motivation to say like, you know, if we're obviously cuts in the ongoing figures would be, you know, would be. We are curious if we thought like it would be good to know but I know are any implications of that for teachers. That's all I might add. When I first came on cbrc, we were a much larger district. And at that time we were told that the districts that nationally that were the size that Portland was central office was at 8%. At that time we were 3%. So we were under the national average by long shot. The most recent data that the previous superintendent gave us, we were 5.2 or something like that. But we're a much smaller district nowadays. And so maybe there is effort or room to clean from the central office budget and that's. You're in a better position to discern that than we are. All right, I'll respond here a little bit as well around class sizes. I mean we're not meeting the state's quality education at all. Class sizes at some schools are so large that we are really operating. We are also listening to our communities in terms of what they want and teachers and parents. And so I think our report is in part of response to what they're really hearing. I mean that is what we are. We are a community body and representing that. So I think the combination of those two things are coming through pretty strongly in our recommendations this year. Yeah, it's an interesting question as to whether absolutely smaller class sizes is the easiest political vote any of us can take. Oh my gosh, we want caught smaller classes. I think the much harder thing is to actually question whether that works. And you know, to be honest, there's so much misinformation out there. We have some of the smallest class sizes of large districts in Oregon. And people point to. There are some classrooms that have 30, 31, 32, some 34. But those classrooms are the outliers in the district. And so it just raises. It's an interesting question for me from a budget perspective is do we put a lot of money into reducing those class items from 33 to 34 to 32, 31 versus instructional coaches versus, you know, versus frankly professional development for teachers? Like. Like it's a huge investment to lower the class Size that I don't think research shows will have an impact. I just want to make one quick comment from an outside perspective and I promise it'll be short. The averages in Portland Public are actually much, much better than most districts in the state. The averages, the robust programming that we offer and the size schools that we offer, that's what makes the numbers challenging. You can't talk about class size and instructional coaches without mentioning the depth of the program that we offer because they go together. I will say I think what moved the committee is really the outliers. The classes of 39 to 42 in middle school first grade classes of 31 that are really difficult for our educational faculty and probably for our students as well. So it's great that we have classes in many cases of 17 in the lower grades, but that's not universally true. Yeah, the larger classes tend to be well together in higher achieving as well. So that's helpful in the challenge. Grace has her hand up. Hi. Sorry I had to go home because I need to teach 7 year olds tomorrow so I got to go to bed. But I just wanted to share in the question about instructional coaches and from a community member teacher perspective I completely value the work that they do and the work that the time that we're given to collaboratively plan is very impactful. And it is also true that students need more trained caring adults in the classrooms, especially in the early grades to help them with their literacy skills if you all are going to make any traction in your goals for third grade reading specifically. So just, you know, both things can be true and as we have enrollment declining, as we have cuts that need to be made, it's just really important to question do is it a value to have an instructional coach in every building if your goal is to target closing the achievement gap for, you know, are historically and currently underserved students. Any other board members the response to that? It's just depending on who you are, it's hard to. There's not a right answer. People see it differently. So yeah, that's hard. I'm just gonna say I'm sad. It's 10:30 at night and we didn't get to say this. Roger in a room in which so many people know you for your service but it's not too late for us to recognize you and thank you for recognizing him because Roger's the person who always the historian and has been not just here at the district but also at anything Franklin related really Southeast Portland Roger's always been present and I don't want to even go by without thanking you for all the contributions and you're not off the hook and I know, but you just may not have to come to everything anymore. So thank you, Roger, for your service and the rest of you. I want to also thank you. We had our CBRC meeting tonight about the local option and the role. I'm sorry, TSCC meeting. And as part of that report, it's important for us to be able to account for the funds in the local option. And of course that's a really important responsibility the voters have given all of you. So thank you for playing that vital role. The reports excellent. I appreciate how detailed it is. I had one question about a recommendation and I like the recommendation about sending out the budget to the schools because I think now is the time you gotta be super transparent. When we have a lot of money or there's, you know, extras, people are less needing of lots of information. But when things are contracting, we need it. On your recommendations on I'm looking at the actual report, not the PowerPoint. But one of the recommendations is the district should prioritize repair, maintenance, upgrades to existing buildings over new construction in the upcoming bond proposals. Does that mean you're not supporting the last two high schools in the next bond? Is that what that means? I think we should add in a good chunk of maintenance. Okay, that's not what it says. Yeah, I do address that in my addendum, but you're going to have to look at that. I think if we're accumulating a clip of 400 million a year, even though we're increasing our amount of attention to deferred maintenance, we're rapidly going to eclipse what we're accumulating. And it strikes me as something is terribly wrong. And I don't know whether the bond accountability committee is responsible for doing this, but we're approving designs for modernizing our schools or building new schools and bingo, they immediately have go on the deferred maintenance list. Bingo. Not even five year guarantee period or whatever. And we approve construction 90 days out after we occupy the building. I built a home and we were still finding deficiency two years after being in the building and the house. You know, I as Julia identified. I volunteered a lot at Franklin High School when they signed off on construction here, we had three pages worth of deficiencies that still hadn't been addressed, but they suddenly became the responsibility of our PTA or foundation because this district signed off. I have a question about that. Do we for staff, do we when we sign off or get an occupancy permit. Are we also getting a one year warranty on the construction? Short answer. Yes. There's various warranties. You have construction warranties that range from one year to two years on the project. There's also manufacturer warranties that can be. If it's a piece of equipment but. And then are we monitoring those? It's like a punch list that everything's completed. Are we monitoring those? Correct. So for those address like we realized like there's no electrical outlets on one wall or is there someone to follow up? Yeah, there's a. From a contractual standpoint the markers are substantial completion completion and we have punch lists that you're familiar with tickets. Then we have. So our traditional projects have a one year warranty from our general contractor and subcontractors and then we do an 11 month walk effectively to say we have like our maintenance crews go through and say what can we identify that's related to that warranty? And we're going to basically create that list provided to them for that one year. After that period, a lot of stuff. Whether it's found or not, you know, it's not found. That 12 month period comes GPS's responsibility coming forward. Dan, I think the comment about the deferred maintenance are coming from these buildings that are having total system failures. They're not coming from redesigned, modernized buildings. Yeah. And I think it's just that we kind of use interchangeable language. Deferred maintenance typically refers to aged systems. So they aged out. They're beyond their useful life. Work orders, again, I think we can use those kind of interchangeably as we identify something at a specific site. We submit a work order. I think that's 17,000. And I'm just pointing out warranties is not the topic. We're talking about serious deferred maintenance on aging buildings, right? Yes. Not necessarily. Necessarily. So my experience at Franklin, for example, contractor mistakenly didn't put the right flooring in the dance studio. You need a cushion type of thing. And so initially we were told that was a $3,000 item and eventually the district would take place. Well now it's. No, it's the school's responsibility and it's $10,000 nowadays to replace that. And so rapid fundraising has taken place to get that done. But you know why? Anyway, that isn't primary point but you're going to have to look at different maintenance in the long run. It's not going to evaporate fast more. It's a. Both. Yeah, there's a warranty and then there's a deferred maintenance. All right, any other, any other questions? Comments, Thoughts? Thank you guys. Thank you, thank you, thank you for me, you know, I want to acknowledge though, you're only having nine days. Yeah, thank you for raising that because when we put together a budget calendar next year, we should take note, talk about that for the last two years. How to be well and clean when just wrap those all up into one then I bet you can't get as we get the presentation as the team comes up here, I'm joined by some Shanks who is our senior director of school organization. We have Aaron her sitting back there is a senior project. Donna Bezio is our senior project manager for the wills project. We also architecture in such meetings. We're going to go through two presentations quickly. Included in material tonight is a copy of the Cleveland ML's high school comprehensive plan and an accompanying resolution. As mentioned before, view of the comprehensive plan is the next step this multi year planning effort. The plan before you tonight is really the completion of extensive engagement with staff, students, community and it is informed by reference documents that include our comprehensive education classifications, construction design guidelines, climate response policy, etc. As well as lessons learned from previous and approval of the conference plan and the potential step level on each of. So with that, thank you. I'm Swami Shanks. I am the new senior director in the Office of School Modernization. And just to not waste any more time, I'm going to go ahead and turn it over to our design team that's led by Donna Bazayo. Hello, I'm Donna Bazaio. I'm the senior Project manager for the IWLS modernization project. I am not able to share my screen. How do we share it? Recording in progress. I can go ahead and begin talking because I think you have all the slides in your own deck. Thank you so much for hanging in here with us and staying this late. We really really appreciate it. Thank you. With us this evening I have Steffi Knudsen from FORA Architects should be helping you present this evening. We are happy to answer questions from anything that's in the entire slide deck or any staff report. But we are just showing you five slides tonight to discuss the major points of the project during our planning phase. As you know, we've used a lot of community engagement to inform our decisions. There are some main driving factors for our work. The factors included a desire for one clear entrance to the school building at Ida B. Wells and and a strong desire for improved connectivity to Capitol highway and to the Hillsdale business. There was A necessity to plan for the existing pool to remain in place and operational. We are planning for students to remain in the existing school building during construction and not to go to a swing site. We are of course meeting the district goals and education specifications and the specific school needs for Ida B. Wells in terms of academic, athletic and sports spaces. And finally, the site itself was a key driver as we considered the steep slopes, the views, solar exposure and the beauty of the site location and connection to nature. Throughout the planning process, we were informed through various community engagement events. The design team first developed three potential approaches to the site and you are not able to see those here, but hopefully you have those in the packets and as we progressed through different meetings, we narrowed it down to two schemes. After that, we showed the schemes to the FNO committee on March 20 and the committee poised to support for Scheme 2 in our CPC meetings. Initially, we did not ask for a preference between two schemes. We opted for an approach that asked which aspects of the designs were favored and why. Thank you. So as we narrowed things down, we continued to ask people what they liked about the different schemes and we continue to go that route. But by the end of the CPC meetings, at the last CPC meeting we did ask people for a preference and at that time members that were present did prefer scheme 2 overall, especially when thinking about the long term. However, there were members in favor of Scheme one and some people also noted that they like both of the schemes as both deliver an excellent school building. Do you mind outlining kind of what the. Because we've heard from some community members that they value one option or the other even though we can see the two side by side so high level where the key differences. Yes, the key difference here in Scheme 1 is that the track and field remain in the existing location and in Scheme two that track and field gets reoriented north south, which is preferable for the sports that are played on the track. It also opens up that access from Capitol highway so that we now have a view towards the school and a direct route path and connects also to North South. Me feel better in many cases. And that's really the main. Correct. Yeah, that's the. That's the main difference between Scheme one and Scheme two other than that the buildings provide all the same things and meet all the district's goals. One of the emails I received said the Scheme one would be cheaper. Yes, that's correct. When we presented to the F and O committee, the scheme one was coming in approximately 6 to 8 million dollars cheaper overall and some people have Felt that that was a pretty minor cost in relation to the total project cost. Does school administration have any thoughts on Steven Proud principal of Ida B. Wells Our staff and students myself we definitely prefer skiing too. We like the aesthetics of every off of highway. We also think of our communities investing so much in the new building. We would like a new tracking field as well our student athletes we have almost half of our students students that are school participate in athletics really complain often about the setting sun and the orientation of the track and if it was able to be reoriented that that would be better for our student athletic program. And also don't build a new track and field that there's going to be a lot of maintenance that needs to happen today in this new track and field. So go ahead and invest in a new track and field space along with the new building. That was honestly I thought they were both good options. You know attended some of these meetings but I was one of those from the school and I know we have received from emails and I think the Hillside business is association first team one does anybody don't fly though they raised a lot of issues that I is there anything more to that substantive? Yeah, one of the things that I heard is that if we rebuild the track or reorient the track, excuse me our athletic programs would be happening off site for an additional year. So right now we plan on having our athletic programs at Jacksonville School just a couple miles away from Ida B. Hills High School. And I'm going to be oriented that will be an additional third year. And our businesses and Hills they'll feel like that might be a hit on their profit making their business. You know we heard the same thing from some parents who admitted I think they said well you know, my kid's going to be there and so I don't want them to, you know, be off site for that long. But you know they also sort of even some of the parents who said that said I know you involved absolutely. And Steve Du has more of a welcoming immigrants into connection into the Hillsdale business area. So we actually our business manager here, Erica Koval and I were talking about we actually do that at the end. It will boost business in Hillsdale between the school and that was my thought too even as a former student there that that huge, you know, massive princess. But it's just this weird barrier to this which will be changed exactly. Highway all you see is the back side of the grandstand rather than a welcoming entrance that says this will be through access. Right. Right. Now when we put Together scheme one and scheme two. Scheme one showed the access all the way around. Scheme two did not. Part of it was trying, you know that there was some concerns about safety driving through the site. I think since then we've heard some more concerns about if there isn't an access within the site it forces people to go through the Reiki parking lot which is a safety concern. So I think we'll want to spend some time to try and consider is there a way to safely get I mean certainly for maintenance and district vehicles there and fire that's a no brainer. We can do that. It's really about if you pulled into the parking lot from the north and there's no spots there, how do you get to a south parking lot or get around. And I think that that's a solvable problem. Are we approving it without it and it or what are we improving and this particular issue. Yeah. So what the work approves is the comprehensive plan. And what said we say we come back things substantive change and oftentimes we don't get back approval but there's changes that don't seem really substantial. We just like to make like that. So I think this is something that unless there was some specific directive we would definitely be the goal is to try and make it So I actually don't. So just to be clear we had some of these conversations as well and I know the committee looked at. There were a lot of people who didn't think you needed that. I think the re safety issues are important to think about. But I'll just tell you and we need to. There's a couple different things. I think having the road creates its own set of issues. I think we need to move away from designing for cars and everything we do and think more about designing for pedestrians and site cyclists and all the rest of that. And so I get it. I think change is hard. I think people are used to having that through road around the campus right now. And so they're like oh my gosh, what's going to happen? We don't. What's going to happen is there will be changes. Some people will go through parking lots so maybe we need to stop that. Some people will go to the neighborhoods and you know, we maybe need to make adjustments there. But I'm not heading to the answer but we're. Yeah. If we look at the next slide we'll have Steffi walk us through scheme two and she can further define that in terms of what we plan for. I mean I think we obviously will take direction from PPS on what PPS wants. And so trying to understand what the right solution that PPS wants, I think will be the challenge. I think that there are a lot of different design options that we can consider that can try and solve this problem problem in the shorter term without posing additional problems later. And I think it's one of those issues. There are so many things that are not yet designed on this site that have yet to be designed. You know, we are just about to start real schematic design here. And so I guess the question would be, you know, is that a. An essential criteria that needs to be understood or is that a criteria like so many other criteria that will be further defined? I mean, it certainly is a part of the ED spec to have a connector road, right? So it is. It is not. No, it is certainly not part of. Sorry, it's late. My bedtime was an hour ago. I mean, a couple of other things maybe to point out about this scheme that is a little bit different than scheme one and maybe was part of some advantages is that this scheme is more able to distribute parking on the north and south scheme had most of the parking off Vermont and very little parking on the north side where the athletics and the pool were. Also, the scheme has been able to pull the tennis courts away from the residential houses. And this was a lot of conversation. To be clear, there is no pickleball in the nspec. We're providing for tennis courts according to the ED specific, but because there's pickleball now, it became a lot of discussion. So it's also a couple of other things to know something so fun is just tearing communities apart. I know, right? I can't tell you how many conversations we have. The existing grandstands will have to have some investments made in them for them to be brought up to code. The cost for the investments in the grandstands is not really very far off from the cost of a new set of grandstands. So, you know, there isn't necessarily a cost impact. We haven't done such an extensive review to know is it like exactly equal, but they are really close in the amount of cost that the existing grandstands would need. In this scheme, the new grandstands will basically be integrated along the hillside. So even though the new grandstands have a smaller seating capacity than the existing ones, there's a lot of opportunity to incorporate seating and design within the hillside. So that's something that we've been looking at. One of the things pointed out by the Hillsdale Business district letter was that the football games were mostly held at night. I think it's important to clarify that there's a lot of sports beyond football played on this field. It is the varsity games that tend to be played late enough at night that the setting sun is less of an issue. All the other sports teams and practices that practice on the field actually are impacted by the setting sun. And so, you know, while the reorientation of the field was not a priority for district athletics, the main reason for the reorientation of the field was to open up that access south and to make it so that you're not entering the site underneath an ugly concrete grandstands anymore. But there are still a lot of things that the site designed to accommodate home stands. And then you got visitor stands. And how much is. Well, currently the home stands, the current ones are. So can you tell me what. What was that website? I know what the current ones are. The ED spec provides 1700 seats in one set of grandstands. There's no visitors in home stands. So that's what you're. You're gonna. Yeah, there will be no visitors. Yes. Right now there are currently about almost 2200 in the existing concrete grandstands. I don't know the official count on visitor stands, but those would be gone in either. The downside to the stands in Scheme 2 is that those do face west. That letter did point that out is true. Those same varsity games, which are the high spectator games, are the ones that tend to be played later. And I swear that settings may not be such an issue. And we are, as you can see, planning on having tree canopy on the kind of south and west side the field. I mean, that won't help people in the grandstands and while the sun is setting, but it will provide some alternative locations on those times of the year when that's an issue. So can have everything. Yeah, exactly. We're trying. And that setting sun and the views to the west, they are beautiful. So when it's not an issue, it is also a real benefit. Yeah. Can I ask? All right. Because that wasn't common. I mean, some people. People hear about different things, but there was one thing just during construction, I just wondered, like, do we need to consider that tonight? I think it's an important issue. We should do what we can, but just need to consider tonight. And do you want to tell us what you're going to do with the Hillsdale market? Farmers market, yeah. And there was an email that went up, like. Right. So, in short, you know, we understand the importance of the impact that is possible as far as how the site and all these being constructed. It's still to be determined. So once we have our general contractor cmg, we'll be able to lay that out better. It's un. I think it's unlikely that we will be able to go the entire construction period and not impact market. But we also think there's no re. Opportunity. So we're going to look to minimize those impacts, but we just. We don't have that level. We're happy to communicate. All right. We have questions. Comments box. Yeah, just a couple. You want them? I think we're good. Right? Do you want that? I mean, appreciate it. All right. So moved. Second. Feels like a really important, like, milestone to enter. Yes. All right. Director. Director. Second. Any other discussion? All right. Ms. P. There any. Any public comment? Oh, no, we're not doing public comment. Don't mind the board. Without Border Resolution 6900 authorizing IV will type through modernization. All in favor, indicate by saying yes. Yes. Okay. Hearing no. No, Director. So it's done. All right. Passes 70. Andrew has no bodies whatsoever. All right. Okay. Hello, my name is Eric Erding, senior project manager with the Office of School Modernization. And with me I have Abby Dacey, principal at Malam Architects. Great. Thank you. And we're here to give you a brief overview of the Cleveland High School comprehensive plan. As you see the first slide there, that shows the sites that PPS owns that comprise the Cleveland High School campus. We've got our track site, which is a few blocks away from then our main site, where the building is. And we also have the parking lot across 26th Avenue from the main building. The planning effort that started last fall has primarily looked at these sites for the comprehensive plan. Planning for the track site includes improvements and additions to the athletic facilities there. We are also planning on pedestrian safety improvements along Waverly Boulevard, which is the street that connects the track to the main building site. During the comprehensive planning effort, the team studied various building options to build on the main site and also build on the parking lot site. Building on the main site consisted of just consolidating the entire ED SPEC program on the 14 acre site. But we also look at a distributed option that builds builds part of the school on the parking lot across 26th Avenue because the city won't allow us to close 26th Avenue and take over that space. There are safety and security concerns about having students and staff move across to a part of the school across the street. So that scheme requires us to incorporate a sky bridge. So there's definitely an additional significant cost to build part of the school on the parking lot site. So therefore, the recommended option moving forward is to build. To remove, you know, the existing structures on the main site and to build a consolidated Cleveland high school all on that one site and not on, on the parking lot site as well. As you'll see in the board packet and comprehensive plan, the team is still completing some analysis of the option to build across the street. That's just called out as an alternate additive. Alternate within the costs, but it is a significant cost. But we still want to make sure that we're really bottoming out on that option and then just move forward on the consolidated site option. That's, that's what we're, we're end up doing with which is the right. And then Abby can talk a little bit about the recommended option. All right, so if you were paying attention to the previous slide or have spent time around Cleveland, you know that the site is very small and very full. So our biggest challenge was how do we put an even bigger comprehensive high school on a 4 acre site? So this design just orient you. You have southeast Powell Boulevard in the lower portion. On the left side, that little white building is Burgerville. So our approach is to build more densely, build to the edges. So pushing the school to the north and the south side, which allows us to orient the building optimally for solar access and orientation. And then it also creates a secure courtyard in the middle of the building, which is really important for the students in the site. That's something they've never had before. So the classroom bar is to the north. That's the gray building. Smaller scale windows let students look out to the north neighborhood, south to the courtyard. And then on the along Powell, we have the bigger program elements. So the theater and performing arts are shown in purple and the gyms are shown in red. So not only are those bigger, more recognizable program elements, but the gym is the closest location to the Waverly connection. So yeah, the bar on the north would be between four and five stories. We are looking at option to move some of that either, as Eric said, to the other site or to the top of the gym. So that's one of the studies that we're working at this point. But overall, what this lets us do, we're pretty happy with it because it gives us the feeling of getting the entire school program on one site. The consolidated site is the least risky and most cost effective. And then the second slide is a cut through the building Looking to the east. So Powell Boulevard would be to the right, and Franklin street would be to the left. And we used this slide to talk about the vision of the school, which was to draw inspiration from the context and create a vibrant campus that centers students and staff. The words here are words from the goals that we put together for the project. And, you know, at this early stage, it's not yet a design, but it's a gesture of how the building will go together to create welcoming spaces, establish that heart to the campus, and allow us to really showcase academics and activities both within the school and outside the school. Excuse me. Yes, the blue building. So the blue. Yeah. That is a connector between those two bars. So it's probably a couple stories. We're looking at how it can be open underneath it to provide both some covered outdoor space as well as that physical connection through the site. So at times of day, when it's appropriate, it's going to be open, and people can actually move from the parking lot through the. Into the site from either side and really connect those sites. Right now, they act as a. Cleveland itself is kind of like a fortress that you have to go around. And now to create a way to actually go through it at the appropriate times really connects it to the neighborhood. And in that previous slide, was that shown as the entrance from Franklin? We are actually showing the entry at the back of that slide. So along 28th Avenue. It's something we're still studying, but we think we can get a bigger pedestrian courtyard space there to receive people. The entry right now on 26th is not great. Students come tumbling out of the school and kind of into the street as traffic comes down. So looking at just a much gentler, safer way to access the building. And it puts the center of gravity of the school further east, which makes it closer to the track. Yes. So we start to actually pull the school together instead of feeling like there's only disassociated sites. I just. When I was reading through it, this. Obviously, you think about it. To make sure that performing arts for the ones facing foul, and then. Yeah, so we have to worry about that. Yeah, really nice. We've only just begun. Well, that's my cue, then, to talk about schedule real briefly. So, yes, we just are really beginning the design phase now, so completing this comprehensive plan. The 2020 bond, you know, provided $20 million for the project for planning and design. That's the same budget that I.V. wells got as well. And so that's why we are, you know, we're contracted to do Our design work, we're starting that phase with the approval comprehensive plan, the design phases of approximately two years, including all permitting that's required. So we're looking at two years and construction would. Would start if we have construction funding from a future bond and then so starting in 2026 and as we say in our timeline is to be determined since you know, we don't have our funding yet, but it would be more or less a two year. Roughly a two year construction term. As far as cost summary, the. Our hard construction costs are summarized kind of at the top of this slide. And below that we've got what we call our soft costs or owner costs. And then our total project budget. You see that we've deducted the $20 million that we received from the 2020 bond. And so then we have a remaining budget funding requirement of approximately 448 million to complete our budget. And also just notice we note that there are the alternates that are listed there. The first one was talking about building on the parking lot site. The second altitude we have, which was actually mentioned earlier during some public comment, is to study Powell park and the possibility of doing athletic improvements at park. We were asked by district athletics to see if we could address just the dispersed facilities that Cleveland has based on such a small campus. And so we haven't built this into the overall comprehensive because we actually have our first meeting with parks and Rec tomorrow to discuss this. So this is really kind of in the early feasibility phase. So it, it may become part of the project as we move forward. And then I imagine we back back to you. That's it. Baseball does. And field sports like of soccer and lacrosse. Okay, so. And softball is located at W because I know they were at the softball team was asking if they could also use Powell park, but is that what they have? That's our hope space. That's. That's the feasibility study that we're working on to see if we can fit both softball and baseball on Powell Park. Correct. So I was a parent of a student athlete at softball at Cleveland and I have son at a different PIL school who played a lot of baseball at Foul Park. And I'm going to be really concerned if we just have baseball at Powell park and softball was somewhere else because it seems like the exact same issue. We have a grant where we had three years of complaints about. Even though we can say it's legally not a Title IX issue, it feels like there's preferential treatment for the boys in the field to walk across the street to Practice and the girls we know this are narrative sport. I go two miles away. So I'm gonna have support of both sides because I think there's a conversation like baseball. Just because it always has come there. Because we said baseball. It's a different size, it's a different side. But I mean I'm sure they can put a softball field in really. Because they're basically yes the boundary. But I think if only one sport could go there. I think the question. There should be a question about whether like does baseball go there or the soccer go there and the boys go. I'm not suggesting that at all. But I'm just saying we shouldn't because that's what has happened forever. Because boys got a place where it's being for a middle school. So they got the best. My other issue is and in some relates to not going. He's have to go to Woodstock. But I just found out. I'm sorry raising this issue at this meeting. But I just found out the plan was to have Marshall do sort of the swing site for a lot of the sports, not the swing site like the permanent site. And I think it's do that because I think it's pretty problematic as a don't have any worry to get there and we don't provide practice. I was expecting to drive my daughter to Selwood park and she played soccer three miles away from Missoula for four years. And I don't think it's a sustainable solution. I mean maybe swim sites. So I'm going to be really interested in. I guess maybe we're not doing that right now, but just context for everyone. And so during the deal with the longer facilities plan which took a couple years that you guys acknowledge that quite a few of the high schools just have small. They don't have enough space on site for all. I think that's actually have enough space. So the proposal of facility plan is that the district would develop three hubs and those would be home fields for a number of different. So for example, the Marshall hub would become the home course for Cleveland for softball, baseball, soccer and football practice. In addition to like the freshman. The JV teams all tennis lacrosse. And so that would be that that location. That's not ideal. It's not on site. So. But that was what the intended longer slice plan. The original concept plan for Cleveland that was. That was pre the 2020 bond and what the direction was. Here we now have this alternate that helps solve potentially partial baseball softball at hall park, but doesn't solve those other Challenges. It certainly makes it better if you get both those there. They have to. Even if they have to share reality that we can find difference. But I don't think it's a. But I don't think it's a solution to have practice. I mean kids don't really get there. My daughter never met, we never had. So she didn't have a way to get it. So she. We either had to leave work early, that's a privilege to drive our daughter to practice, or just trust that she's going to get inside a kid's car and get to practice and be able to get a ride home somewhere else. Oftentimes it's dark on. Kids are waiting for their rides and it's not ideal at all. So I don't see. I mean it's. It's three. What do you see? Well, that's where they're going to practice. So that's the whole. Correct. So any large plan identifies like 19 teams that would use that. Director Wong. Sorry. Yeah, I don't know. It's probably already been mentioned. I'm having a hard time hearing. But yeah, I just want to second Director Brim Edwards. Concern about the Title IX equity. I know it's not necessarily legally required, but I think we do need to consider time and time distance to travel as part of the equity lens and access for both girls in boys sports. Sorry, I'm tired. Thanks. That's all I have one second. All right, thanks. Any other comments? Yeah, I'll be interested to hear the exploration about that issue. Page 12 of the comprehensive plan shows the softball field and baseball field on Powell Park. So that's the hope is to improve Powell Park. That's what we're voting for? Yes. All right, I'm getting distracted by all the citizen alternates. All right, any other questions, thoughts, board members? All right, do we have a motion resolution no to resolution 6901? Motion now. Yeah, Motion. Second. Second. I got it. All right, we have a motion second to authorize Cleveland High School modernization comprehensive plan. Any more board discussion? None. I want to just thank the team having about the Cleveland deck and I want to thank the team for all the work they've done with the community. It's been a great process and people are really excited. All right, thank you. All right, go to votes. All in favor, please indicate by saying yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. All right. Your student director Silverstein voting yes. All right, Resolution 6901 is approved by vote of 7 to 0 with a student director Silverstein voting Yes. All right. We have no comments. All right, let's hear from our partners. Union partners. Thank you for taking your time waiting. Hi. Hello. Hi. Chris Walters. I am the newly elected co chair for Nutrition services for seiu. Congratulations. That's something you forbid something. This is a regular time slot for you. So just so you know. Yeah, definitely well aware. So I'm not actually here to talk about convention services. I'm here to talk about the custodial side of seiu. As you all are aware, we have a new contract. In that new contract it says that custodial folks get paid time and a half for coming in during make them a bit lighter. So back in January we had a very deadly ice storm. Dozen or so people died in the city during the storm. During that time the custodians were coming into the schools, some of which had water raining down inside classrooms. They were doing their best to to make the schools functional for whenever the weather event ended and get the kids back in. So because of the timing of the signing of the contract, Orlando Public Schools paid out retro pay to custodians and nutrition services going back to July 1st. And they paid the custodians the time and a half for those days that they worked during the weather. However, because we hadn't signed and ratified the contract yet, because the management team for PPS decided to not do full day bargaining sessions or anything and just laid late. So we didn't actually get it done until after that weather event. They've decided to that they're going to claw back the money that was paid to the custodians for that time and a half during the weather event. The amount of money is basically a rounding error EPS budget. We realized that because the contract was signed after this event, legally Portland Public Schools has the right to claw back money that these custodians got that most of them have already spent and we've filed for negotiations about this. What we would really like, since the amount of money is not terribly large, would be for the board just to PPS's management. It's your mistake. Just deal with it. Let the custodians keep your money. That would be great because I mean most of them risk their lives to keep the schools going and PPS is now trying to blow back a couple hundred bucks from each of these folks money again that most of them have already spent. It's an equity issue, it's a justice issue and it really pisses off and we'd like you all to do the right thing. That would be Nice. So obviously this is not something that you all should take care of right now. Feel free to think about it. But yes, we appreciate that very much. Thank you. Thanks. Thank you. My name is Melissa. I'm here with pfsp. I have something longer, but I'm going to be short on April 24. The proposed budget was shared with the board. We've talked extensively about the staffing impacts and the concern concerns that we have. But I want to address some of the questions and the answers that came up during that discussion. Director Scott, you asked if layoff notices had already been sent to employees and were told the answer is no. It came as a surprise for employees who were working in print shop just downstairs because they had all received notification that their department would be closing and had received their layoff applications six days prior. It's one thing to have an unexpected layoff notice. It's another thing to watch the school board meeting and be told you didn't receive the notices you have in your hand. So I understand that many employees who received unassignment notices have not gotten final notice of their employment status. Is the exception that most employees are still waiting to hear if they've been laid off or not. But the print shop is not an example of individuals with highly specialized skills who have assumed that they will not be placed elsewhere. They've received that official notification that their employment with PBS will end June 30th. It's an example of our members being dismissed and overlooked. And the result in the immediate impact is that they are currently being overworked. At the same time that the board has been told that the layoffs have not been announced yet. Information that the print shop has been closed has been passed on to school sites. So the number of print shop orders has gone from 400 to 600 for the month, an increase of 50% in about 10 days as staff across the district have been rushing to get their orders in before the print shop closes. So I recognize that the board can make decisions that are based on information has provided to you. I want to thank you for the questions that you asked because a lot of them explored a lot of issues that we have been talking about for some time. And I would ask that going forward that the information that's provided to the board is more complete and includes the sort of exceptionalities that sometimes. Thank you. Thank you. All right, next we're going to vote on the board calendar for next year. Director Scott, move. Director to pass. Second, I have a couple of questions here. Not tonight. Any more discussion. Hearing None. Is there any public comments? Oh, no. No public comments for having. All right, all in favor, please begin by saying yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. I think. All right. Still directors of Time voting yes. All right, next is the consent agenda. All right. Director works second. Any board discussion. All right. 6906 through 6910. All in favor, indicate by saying yes. All right. Director. Student director Silverstein. Yes. All right. Yes, please. All right. Resolution Tapas 70. And we're good. I'm sorry, do you guys think we need a gender? All right. Excuse me. That.
