start time: 01:49:20.000
end time: 2578:13:50.000
confidence: 0.95
A: All right, this is a public regular meeting of the Board of education for September 10, 2024. Is call to order all items being considered this evening as posted on the PPEP's website under the Board and Meetings tab. This meeting is being streamed live on PPS TV Services website and on Channel 28 and will be replayed throughout the next two weeks. Please check the district website for replay times. Good evening and welcome. Thank you for being here this evening. Before we get started, I want to share a few housekeeping reminders. In order to ensure safety, please keep walkways and aisles clear. We also ask you to please be considerate to those around you and keep any signs below chin level. Additionally, if you would like to emphasize I would like to emphasize that our primary objective is to engage in the business and services of our children. We want everyone to be examples of being respectful and courteous to each other, including board members, even when we disagree. All right, first item tonight is a resolution to acknowledge Hispanic Heritage Month beginning September 15th. Dr. Armstrong, I understand that we have some guests here this evening. Yes, thank you, Chair Wong. Tonight we have Margarita Ferrer Tamayo, a first grade teacher at Lent, and Vanessa Ramirez Zarita and Sama Rosas are both students at Lent. Hello. They are here to share what Hispanic Heritage Month means to them and for those students in dual language immersion and what it means to their culture to be at a school which celebrates being bilingual and bicultural. Please come forward, esteemed PPS board members, teachers, students and families. It is a pleasure to participate in this important event today. In regard to welcome to the Hispanics Heritage Month celebrations in the PPS district wide. First, we would like to introduce ourselves. My name is Vanessa Ramirez Surita and I'm San Marrosas. We are in third grade at elementary school in Southeast Portland which is currently a full DLI in Spanish school. We are very excited to have the opportunity to share our short but solid experiences about what it means for our culture to go to a school which celebrates being bilingual and bicultural. In addition, what Hispanic Heritage Month means to us the arrival of September is always welcomed with great enthusiasm by all of us at Lent as it paves the way for us to embark on the celebration of Hispanic cultures characterized by being an immersive journey filled with vibrant colors, tempting aromas, fascinating traditions and cultural reverberations that undoubtedly leave an undeniable mark on our consciousness. Throughout these three past school years we have gone to school which celebrates being bilingual and bicultural. So it has meant our culture to be exposed to many different learning Activities that involve academic language, respect, diversity and cultures. A woody worldview learning which are expanding and opening our minds. Additionally, it means to enjoy learning academic and social subjects based on the benefits of being bilingual. Allows enhanced memories to strengthen cognitive abilities and improve academic achievements in both languages. Finally, it's been from a young age to be able to develop communication skills and a higher degree of illusory English and Spanish for all students there. To conclude our speech, the Hispanic Heritage Month means to us a huge trip around languages, traditions and cultures. In a few words, an amazing trip around the world where our cultures are celebrated and we become not only bilingual and bicultural students, but also multilingual and multicultural. Parafinalizado nostro discurso el meze la hereencia Espana significance las tradiciones y las culturas. Now allow us to present you a few traditions from lens. As we told you, the month of the sun is always welcomed with great and sudden by all of us at. Apart from that, the main goal at best is to develop to be bilingual. At Lent, we present. We do presentations in class about our traditions of our family's cultures. Which represents the food, typical dresses and how typical ways. Thank you. That was such a great presentation. That was two super brave students. I mean, honestly, we should just. I wish we could just end the meeting right here so everyone could go home with smiles. That was too cute. I'm about to explode. So if I choke up your album. All right, so do I have a motion and a second to adopt Resolution 6964 resolution proclaiming the celebration of national Hispanic Heritage Month in Portland Public Schools. So moved. Second. Awesome. Director Bremut Edwards moves. And director Holland seconds. Is there any board discussion? No. All right. Ms. Bradshaw, is there any public comment? No. Great. The board will now vote on Resolution 6964 resolution proclaiming the celebration of National Hispanic Heritage Month in Portland Public Schools. All in favor, please indicate by saying yes. Yes. All opposed, please indicate by saying no. Are there any abstentions? Student representative Kasaivi, please indicate your vote. Yes. Awesome. Resolution 6964 is approved by a vote of 5 to 0, with student representative unofficially voting yes. All right, next up, we have the superintendent's report. Superintendent Armstrong, would you like to go ahead and give your report? Yeah, absolutely. We are on 10 days of school, and so I'm super excited to bring forth this report that will be projected soon. You all have hard copies in front of you. I also want to acknowledge that I have expanded cabinet at the Tables and so I also bring these remarks on behalf of the entire senior leadership team. So today is September 10th. Thank you. I forgot I have the controls. I'm looking at like where are we at? All right, so school is in session. Super excited to recognize and celebrate that we have 3,526 licensed educators employed here at PPS and we still have some openings and moving candidates through the hiring process. But just wanted to just lift up and celebrate as we know without teachers we would not be here. We also have 452paraeducators, we have some vacancies and we're in the process of filling those as well. So definitely want to lift up and acknowledge those who are huge supporters in and around classrooms. And lastly we have 231 educational assistants and you're able to see some of the vacancies and those who are in the pre K program, general educational assistance, bilingual and so on and so forth. So just want to acknowledge that we have those humans who are helping us every single day as we bring quality education to every classroom in Portland Public schools. So I'm excited as I have been on this journey of creating a 100 day plan and there's been some pre activities that I've been engaged in and if you look at the timeline you're able to see I won't read them all to you, but I'll highlight a couple of things. As you know, hired my chief of staff, established some structures, began meeting with community leaders and meeting with labor partners. I think of course that connection and relationship is so significant. Also continuing to connect with those outside of Portland Council of Great City School Leadership as well as local and regional superintendent peers had the opportunity to attend COSA Summer conference for a day and then hop over to or come back down to Vancouver to be at the Women Lead Conference. And so super excited about that. August was just as busy as I had the privilege and honor to welcome not only the school leaders at leadership but then to also have an opportunity to do an all rise event where I was able to speak to all 8,000 employees or those who tuned in and I was super excited to make some connections and I know that there were some folks who tuned in because it's been exciting to be out in buildings and people know who I am and what the priorities are. So that's been exciting. So what does all that do that brings us to the first hundred days of school plan. So not a 100 day plan because it would be ending shortly after school's in session and I Thought it would be meaningful to be focused on the first 100 days of school. And so there's really three goals throughout and I just want to talk through them really quickly. So we know on day one, we welcomed 44,771 students from a variety of places. 81 schools, 6 community based programs, 5 charter schools, 2 alternative programs, 7 special services programs, and Head Start and early learning programs. So starting on day one, priority one, advanced literacy. I know this isn't new, but just some core beliefs. Every student deserves to be a confident reader. We're using data to identify and address gaps and we're partnering with our community to improve literacy. Priority two in this 100 days of school plan is building trusting relationships across our that is really centering voice and being clear that voices matter, being committed to equity and opportunity and being available and grounded in listening and sharing out about experiences across Portland Public Schools. And then priority three, strengthening our safe and supportive schools and that they are also well maintained. And so we're fighting for the resources that students need from all across Oregon, locally and in our buildings and outside externally, we're actively improving our facilities. We've had a host of projects that were completed and still in process from this summer. And we're super excited about every one of those projects because we know that it's a step further in improving our facilities. And we know this because why this is important is because every single one of our students deserves a safe environment. And so my report just anchors on my belief and core message that together we rise. And the rise in one of us is the rise in all of us. Thank you. All right, thank you. Student representative, do you have a report for us this evening? Yes, I do. I just want to start off by saying good evening everyone. I'm excited to be here and excited to be here with all of you. So as you all know, we are in our second week of school. There has been excitement with our students and especially for events like homecoming and club fairs. Last month I had the opportunity to attend the National Stream Fair Board Member Association's three day conference. This conference aims to provide professional development to student representatives across the nation. During this conference, I had the opportunity to learn more about my role and to also how to create policy. And I had the opportunity to meet many student representatives who are at different parts of the states and to also learn more about how their role and how that looks different to mine. And something really fascinating I found out is how some student representatives actually have an official vote rather than an unofficial vote, which that's something I hope we can change in Oregon. Overall, I look forward to utilizing the skills I learned at the conference and bringing it here to pps. I'm also excited to announce the district student council be having our first meeting of the school year next week. I look forward to the amazing work we will do and especially by our students and with our students because I believe we need to center our students at this district district. And that's something we really aim to do. I also want to raise awareness in an issue that a student from Franklin brought to my attention, how some freshmen at high school aren't able to take AP classes. And I just really want to thank the student because I know they're in the crowd for advocating for their education and for their students. I really hope we can center this student's voice. And you know, my request to the superintendent, if we can get some clarity about freshmen's taking AP classes, that would be really helpful. But yeah. Thank you everyone. Great. Thank you. Something I just want to throw in there. Thank you, Dr. Armstrong, student representative Kotavi, for your reports. Next, I thought we'd take a few moments to share some of the first day excitement that we all felt when we visited schools. Our talking about us board members, some even have some pictures to share. Again, I would like to keep these under two minutes. Just, just keep in mind after two minutes you'll hear a beep and. No, just kidding. Yeah. So anybody want to go first? I observed three different schools. So can I have more than two minutes? No. Oh my gosh. Okay. And I'm going to go really fast. So I had the privilege of attending three different opening days. First day I went to Chapman for grades one through five. Many students arrived with their families, met the teacher on the playground. And the principal, Pamela Van de Wolf, has been there quite a while and she has got that under control. Kids know where to go. They come with their parents. They all meet outside. The only thing that went wrong was there were cars parked in the bus zone, but she even had flyers already because she knew that might happen. Put them on the windshields next day, I'm sure it wouldn't happen. So the buses parked a little bit further away than they might have wanted to. But they all met, got to the right place, everybody came in and the teachers led their classes one by one from the playground into the building. And there was just that wonderful mix of calm and excitement that only careful organization and great care can bring. It was really wonderful. Then on the next day, Wednesday, I had a chance to celebrate the first day when all 9th through 12th graders went to Lincoln, the day before, it had just been freshmen and seniors, with the seniors helping the freshmen figure out where they, you know, get settled in. So, so I entered the building with the students. People were greeting each other, talking about their vacations. After IDs were checked, they all kind of spread out. Some went into the office, some were actually newly registering, some were changing their classes, but everybody knew where to go. It was just kind of really ordered chaos. It was wonderful to see. In talking with the Lincoln's principal, Peyton Chapman, I learned that the first couple of weeks in, there's many changes in class rosters and new people register. And I thought that sounded really difficult for teacher planning, but she said, no, teachers are used to that, they plan for that. And she also mentioned that there were quite a few new teachers and a really good vibe in the building. And I got to visit some art classes and met a teacher there who had student taught at Lincoln and was finally able to join the faculty full time after two years of temporary placement. So she was very, very happy. And then my final opening day was a visit when kindergarten came that following Tuesday after Labor Day. And this was the first day when all the kindergarteners were together. They had met with a teacher earlier the week before. So here they were, these little ones, and they knew just where to go already. I mean, it was very impressive. There was one first grader who was headed over to the kindergarten side and was reminded, oh no, now you're first. Just smiled and went over. And everybody seemed. Most students seemed quite happy and excited about school, but I saw one dragging their feet and I knew that mother was going to have a hard time saying goodbye. And later, when we walked by the kindergarten classes, that child was crying and an EA was, was helping, walking with him in the hall, trying to calm him down. And it just made me realize how important everybody is in the program. And I found out that there are two EAs at Ainsworth. I don't know if I mentioned this where I was, but their principal told me that the EAs that they have are there because of foundation money and next year they won't have that money. So we all need to work really hard to find a way to fund these really exceptional resources. And as a former teacher, I really breathed in these very special moments of the first days of school with both their promises and challenges. And even the weather was good, although it decided to give us challenges later in the week. But we started out perfectly. And I really know how much planning it takes to have seven such smooth openings. And I'd like to thank everyone who worked together to give us such a great start, and especially the teachers. But I know there's paraprofessionals and people in the office, staff and principals and the people, cafeteria workers, everybody that works together. And I just, you know, it was in three places. They all went differently because they had different age kids, but they were all beautiful. I just hope it continues this year. Thank you. Did I do it in two minutes? Nope. Thank you. Andy, you didn't buzz me. I almost beeped you. Beep. Anybody want to go next? Well, I'll be very quick. I only had an opportunity to visit one school when I went to Jackson actually for the arrival of the Markham students. Just as a reminder, Markham students are still displaced from their school. And so anyway, I was there just for that arrival. And of course, course, my love, Prince of the Brown Horns is incredible. And you know, that whole first day just got off to such a great start. And that community's been incredibly resilient being displaced last year and again for the first six months of this year. But the kids were excited, the parents were excited, and everything was very orderly and everyone arrived great. They've got a whole wing of the building for the first six months. And so hopefully we can get that school, Arkham open, back up again and get them back into their home school. But it was good. It was a good first day for me. Next, our people do like, don't start until I get my photos up. Don't start the timer till then. Two minutes. Okay, go to the next slide. So. So since 1966, every fall of most years, I have been heading off for my first day of school. In Portland public schools, it's been as a student, as a parent, and also as a school board member. This year, I headed out the door to join students to staff on two or three days. On August 27th and 28th, which was the start for most students, I went to Benson mpd, which is multiple pathways to graduation, which the name is Hayashiki U E Hut. And I'm going to get it better Practice Grad Elementary, Cleveland Franklin Bridger Creative Science Lane Middle School, Harrison Park. And then on September 3rd, for the first day of kindergarten, I went to Lent Elementary, Atkinson Pioneer, and so collectively visited some high schools, alternative programs, middle schools, elementary schools and a K8. And I want to thank the parents, principals, teachers, nutrition service workers, school staff for the warm welcome and from students as well. At every school, I observe students excited to be back in school principals, administrators welcoming and supporting their staff and teachers and students ready to have a positive first day of school. I was impressed that on day one students were already actively engaged in schoolwork. And let's see, you're already clicking through the slides, but I if you go back to Pioneer. So I was glad to get the report tonight from the superintendent. School staffing is always an issue for the first day of school and Pioneer, particularly for Pioneer. And I was really delighted. Some super work by administrators this summer. They only had two openings, so I feel like they're going to have a great start to the school year. Going to the next slide then we're at Atkinson Bridger Creative Science. These are schools that were heavily impacted by boundary changes and program changes in the Southeast Guiding Coalition. I will say that there were positive signs of enrollment growth, integration of school communities, a really positive vibe. I think we saw some of the great things that are happening. Go to the next slide at Lent, which was a brand new configuration coming out the Southeast Guiding Coalition. There's still questions about staff, staffing and supports for those schools as they make program transitions, but in general a really positive start. Then on the next slide we're going on to middle schools. I went to both Lane and Harrison Park. Great middle school energy at Lane and they're looking forward to a new name and mascot at Harrison Park. The physical Transition from my K8 to a middle school is still underway. It's a two year project funded by the 2020 bond. Unfortunately, it wasn't quite ready on day one of school. But the good news is that by the end of week one they were ready and the improvements, including AC I know are going to be much appreciated by the students. Also, having it configured to actually support a medical school program will be very much appreciated by both staff and the students. The next slide, we're into high schools and as everybody knows, the new cell phone policy at some of our high schools is kicking into effect. So this is Roseanne Powell checking out what's happening at Cleveland. And so we're looking forward to the feedback that we're going to get from those students. If you go to the next slide, this is the Multiple Pathways graduation building and this is one of my most favorite stops. It serves Alliance High School, the teen parent program, reconnecting services, the DART campus. And in prior years, most of these programs were stuck in random, out of the way places across the district that really weren't equitable learning spaces for students who really deserved it. They have a beautiful brand new building that the Students helped inform the design and the learning spaces are really transformed. And I'll say, like for example, the culinary program went from a hot plate and a microwave to a beautiful new culinary kitchen. And I got there when students were just waiting to be let in. And the student in the bottom right on the right hand side of the photo hadn't yet been into the new building to go up to the top floor to see that he's going to be in the building represented on the mural. He's the individual in the middle of the mural they designed. A lot of the students really advocated for their own school and their own place to learn. And you can see the impact of those students efficacy to throughout the design of the building. The next slide is Benson and I'll probably let Eddie, when he gets to his report, talk about that. But incredible to see this new state of the art career technical learning Center. It's going to be the envy of the state. There's nothing like it. It's, I think somewhat of a conspiracy that somehow there were no pictures from Franklin included. But I had a great visit to Franklin, a nice visit with the nutrition service staff who raved about all students having access to meals. And that was a common theme I heard at all the schools as well. And overall, I'll just say from talking to parents and students staff the first day of school that I think we're off to a really strong start. The optimism, empowerment I felt in the PPS community can be summed up in the sign that was hanging in the lane office that says make it happen. Which resonated for me in that if we want a great school year for our students working together, we can all make it happen. And you should say, sorry, Director Hollins, you want to go? Yeah, well, Director Burma was using all my time, so I'm gonna make it quick. I'll just answer too. Yeah, well, I'm gonna keep mine real brief. I went to Jason Lee and Rosetta Elementary. Thank you. Jason Lee was great. Went in, met with principal, I normally get her name wrong, Falquist. She had a great team. I haven't seen one of our administrators there. Patrice woods was there. The kid was enthusiastic. They were giving high fives coming to the building. So just a great environment for the first day of school. Also went to Rose City Park. I didn't make it that first day, but I went for their kindergarten clap in, which is one of the best things I've seen all year. You know, they do this thing where they all the kids come out to welcome the kindergartens into the school building and they clap them in and they go around in a circle outside. It was just the greatest thing, I don't think. I think it was a little overwhelming for the kindergartners to see all these kids out there with them. Some of their faces like, oh, Lord, what is this? But it was just. It was great. And I learned that they also do a clap out for when the kids leave going to middle school. So it was great. And that was the principal bacon over there. That was it. Thank you. Awesome. Great. I think I'm the last one. I also have pictures. I brought pictures. So I'll take my full two minutes pictures. So I guess I'll get started. To cut some time, I brought along with me State representative Khan Fam. Or maybe she brought me. I don't know. We could arm wrestle over it. I'll just start from the top left corner and go in order. So we first started at Lent and you can see outside of Lent, outside the door, there's all these parents crying that they can't see their kids for the next seven hours. Really cute. And then I have to give a kudos for the next one. If you recognize Kellogg, which is the second on the top. Those kids behind representative Khan Fam's head right there are the school band. And they played while the new sixth graders came in on sixth grade day. And they were so amazing. And so I went up to the teacher afterwards and I was just like the band teacher. And I was just like, wow, where did you find time to get all these kids together, practice all summer? And he just looked at me funny and was like, we didn't practice all summer. I was like, what did you do? And he said that he brought the kids in 45 minutes early. I mean, these kids came in 45 minutes before school started. And they just rehearsed right there and then. I mean, these are future pros in the making right here. I mean, to be able to pull it off in 45 minutes. They sounded like pros. My head is covering the front of Franklin on the bottom, your left. And that was really cool. That was ninth grade day. And I don't really have much to say about that except it was really cool to see the energy and the lines. There was a lot of lines. And the next one is Benson. That was when we did a tour. Yeah, this is actually where I'm standing. Right there, I think is where my old classroom used to be. And you can see they built a whole new classroom for me. I'm Just kidding. I don't work there anymore, unfortunately. Yeah. And that was a really fun day. Also, I want to send out kudos to our bus drivers. My daughter takes the bus, and I just have to say the professionalism of our bus drivers is just amazing. There were a few times where. And, you know, these are things that make your parents feel safe taking the bus. There were a few times where some cars were not paying attention and the bus driver was. And the honking, telling those car drivers to slow down and stop, even if the kids weren't even close, was amazing to see. They are on top of it. And I just have to say absolutely amazing bus drivers. And I just give kudos to them. Thank you. Sorry, I'm supposed to move on to the next part. All right, next up, we have student comments. First, let's. Mr. Bradshaw, do we have any students signed up for our student comments? We do. Great. All right, then, before we begin, just. I want to review some guidelines for public comment first. The board thanks you for taking this time to attend the meeting and providing your comments. Public input, especially from our students, informs and improves our work, and we look forward to hearing your thoughts and reflections. Our board may follow up on board related issues during public testimony. We do request that complaints about individual employees be directed to superintendent's office as a personnel matter. For materials that you would like the board to receive, handouts, pictures, etc. Please do not come to the dais. Please hand them to our board manager, Ms. Bradshaw, and she'll distribute them to us. Great. If you have any additional materials or items you would like to provide to the board or superintendent, we ask that you email them to public comment. All one wordps. Please make sure that when you begin your comment, you clearly state your name and spell your last name. You'll have three minutes to speak. You'll hear a sound after three minutes, which means you have 30 seconds to wrap up your comment. All right, if you can have our student. Would you like to call up our student? Yes. Commentators Calypso Kupper and James Colbert Nusser. Hi, all directors, but definitely talked to you all before and not in the nicest tones. Welcome, Superintendent. Uh, I'm gonna say much of the same, because a lot of things have stayed the same, but a lot of new things have also happened. That for introductions. Hi, I'm Kalypso Kupper. K U P P E R. I'm a senior at Franklin High School, and I have some concerns that just recently there's been another school shooting. It's a tragic event. But I find myself unable to grieve as deeply as I feel I should because over the last 11 months I have been seeing much worse tragedies on my phone every day. A scholasticide and a genocide of the Palestinian people that has been waged for 11 months with no word of comment from you, the school board and superintendent who have been all ready and willing to apologize and try and help our grieving members of our community whenever any other issue happens. But not this one. Thousands of people have died. 600,000 students are not able to return to schools. This is an issue that should be of vital importance to the school board and there are members of our community who would love and look for words from all of you. And yet we have heard nothing. It has become more than willful ignorance. It's feels as nothing else than a deliberate attack. And in no other way is this more clear than on as we can see last last school year there was a proposal that was met with immediate and rapid public opposition and yet it still went through. The JROTC program that I'm sure you remember me from giving comment about is a horrible stain on this school district. They that I'm deeply grieved went through and I ask that on this day, not too far after Labor Day, you listen to our school unions, Portland association of Teachers and Portland Federation of School Professionals and their demands to reject militarization of our schools at a time when rampant US Imperialism and military buildup is happening before our very eyes. This is a horrible sight to see. And all of you, in your complicity in voting for it or remaining silent as to the issue of the ongoing genocide are all too complicit in Please do something History does not look kindly on those who do nothing in the face of horrible actions, as I'm sure you're aware, because there is a law in Oregon that requires education on genocides and yet you would rather fire teachers and substitute teachers who would teach on this then put any words thank you. I am James Colbert Nusser from Franklin High School. Spelled C U L B E R T N U S S E thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak. I'm worried that multiple high schools are ignoring PPS policy and I'm curious what you think about this. This school year I tried to get into AP Environmental Science as a freshman. Your policy clearly states that AP classes are for anyone in grades nine to 12 who are confident, motivated and ready. My principal told me that multiple high schools feel that this policy is a mistake and she implied that I would get the same response from their respective principals. She did not want to be different from them. Do you believe that this policy is a mistake? Freshmen at Franklin who have taken AP classes come from Access Middle School which all students do not have access to. I don't understand how only allowing students who want to access Middle school middle school gives all students equal opportunity. Can you help me understand why this policy is not being upheld? It is my understanding that as a school board, you care a lot about advancing student achievement. Allowing students to take AP classes as freshmen would do that. Could you help me and my fellow freshman be the best students we can be and rise together? Thank you. Thank you for the two students that came up to comment. I know it takes a lot of courage to come up and speak, so thank you for sharing your thoughts. Next up, we have the agreement between the District Council of Unions and School District 1J, Multnom County. That's. Sorry, I'm reading off two different things. I would like to welcome Genevieve Rowe, our Senior Director of Employment and Labor Relations and Kelly Bond with the District Council of Unions up to share with you what this new agreement includes. Thank you. Good evening Director, Student Director and Superintendent Armstrong. Before you tonight is a two year contract agreement between Portland Public Schools and the District Council of Unions, also known as DCU. DCU represents 97 staff at Portland Public Schools. These staff are responsible for repairing and maintaining our buildings, delivering food and supplies to schools, maintaining buses and repairing and maintaining buildings as well as operations in our warehouse. The goal of this round of negotiations was to negotiate fair economic increases and clean up areas of the contract for clarity and consistency with the other bargaining units. This contract includes compensation increases equivalent to the PAT contract which is a two dollar and thirteen hour cost of living increase to all wages retroactive July 1, 2024. The increase is equivalent to the six and a quarter percent that our teachers received in year one but was allocated as a dollar amount versus a percentage, a four percent cost of living increase. Effective July 1, 2025, the district increased its contribution to health care coverage by approximately approximately 3% each year of the collective bargaining agreement and increased vacation benefits to closer align with other bargaining units. We appreciate this group's ongoing commitment to PPS students, our buildings, our operations, and we're happy that we were able to prioritize our resources to make headway on the items that DCU identified as being most important to their members. And we hope that you ratify the new employment agreement. Superintendent, welcome. I know that you're new. We haven't had an opportunity to meet. To the directors. Thank you for the opportunity to speak before you regarding the district council of unions and the school district's settlement of the contract. And we do hope that you ratify the contract. That would bode well for all of us as we want to move forward with a lot of things that need to be done. For example, fixing the buildings. So thank you very much for the opportunity. I also want to thank the bargaining team, both from the school district side, partially of which is sitting beside me, and the bargaining team from the district council of unions. There was a lot of hard work and we know that there were a lot of issues that came up because we had so many contracts being negotiated at one time. And that was a difficulty for the district. It was also a difficulty for us trying to get time to sit at the table and bargain. But we did finally come to an agreement and we look forward to the ratification. Thank you again very much. Thank you. All right, do I have a motion and a second to adopt Resolution 6963 3, the 2024, 2025 agreement between District Council of Unions and and School District Number one J Malman County, Oregon. Second. All right, we have Director Brim Edwards moves and Director Holland seconds. Is there any board discussion? Ms. Bradshaw, is there any public comment? Actually. Oh, sorry, go ahead. We didn't get the 10 second pause. Thought Patty was going to say something. I just want to speak in support of this. I know it took a while and I appreciate the patience of everyone to get to an agreement. I think it's a fair deal. And I just want to acknowledge that in many ways this unit of workers, they're miracle workers. We have a really aging facility base and set of schools that keeping them all running and full of operating in a way in which they support our students while the average age is 70 to 80 years old, is really a tribute to skilled trades workers. So I really appreciate the work of your team. Yeah, I'd just like to add in looking over the contract that, you know, it must have been so complicated because there's so many different jobs. So I just appreciate all the work. Great. Thank you. Is that it? Is there any public comment? No. No. Great. The board will now vote on Resolution 6963. 202425 agreement between the District of Council Unions and School District 1J Mulnum County, Oregon all in favor, please indicate by saying yes. Yes. All opposed, please indicate by saying no. Are there any abstentions? Student representative concave, Please indicate your vote. A strong yes. Great. Thank you. Resolution 6963 is approved by a vote of 5 to 0, with student representative consevi officially voting. Yes. Thank you. All right, next up, we have second readings of two policies. A revision to the field trips, foreign travel and other off campus activities, 6.50.010 p. And to the promotion and retention of students 4.2 0.010 p policies. Let's begin with policy policy 4.20010 p. The promotion retention of students. Do I. Do I have a motion? And second, to adopt resolution 6965, the resolution to adopt the revised promotion and retention of Students Policy. 4.2 0.010 p. Second, Director Brim Edwards moves. And Director Holland seconds. Director Brim Edwards, as chair of policy committee, will you introduce this item for the board consideration? Yes. So this was a policy recommendation modification that was recommended by staff. It had several discussions on the agenda. Several times in the policy community meeting. It was recommended to the full board unanimously coming out of committee. And just in summary, in 2023, the PPS board had voted to modify the compulsory enrollment and grade level entrance policy. And that modification eliminated our previous practice of offering early entry to kindergarten. This policy that we're looking at tonight still contained language in support of early entry to kindergarten. And so we made modifications to. So that there was alignment between our policies. And also we found when reviewing the policy, it was overly broad, allowing for subjectivity and potential bias in decisions about student pathways. And again, the language is much more clear. It provides more objective tests for proficiency to guide decision making. And hopefully it will be more equitable and clear to parents and also aligned with our other policies. Is there any board discussions? I guess I'll start. I just want to just voice that I support a yes vote on this. I will be voting yes on this. I approve these changes. However, I do want to kind of flag this policy as one that's a little bit overly prescriptive. I mean, this was Originally written in 2002. And I just want to say, honestly, a lot of these requirements and procedures that go into policy should really be like in the student handbook. I just want to note that the policy should represent goals and direction and it really should just say that something to the tone of like, you know, in terms of retention, acceleration, promotion of students, we should be. The district should be ensuring that, you know, equity we are achieving or, you know, doing our best to ensure equity in the process. I think that the how of it should be. Should be handled by the district. This Is again, like I said, overly prescriptive and something, you know, I would would ask the policy committee to kind of revisit and kind of look at again. But I do support these changes, if you can notice. A lot of these changes are actually deletions. Just to point out, you know, equity is a journey. It's not a formula. So in order to adjust quickly as we go, it shouldn't be in policy. It should be like a student handbook, which it's a lot easier and quicker to adjust. That's my comment and that's all I have to say about it. Thank you. If there's no further discussion, is there any public. I guess one thing I'll just say in response is that these were changes that were recommended by staff, not driven by the board. And I guess one of the things I would just say generally of the question of what belongs in the student handbook. I mean, I think as somebody who was a parent for 18 years in PPS who has lots of insights to the district, sometimes I found it very hard to figure out where guidance was. An example, like, is your student going to be accelerated or retained? Where do you find that? So I think it's a good conversation overall. But I also believe we need to strive to make sure that no matter where it is, that we provide clear guidance and information to parents because PPFs can often seem to be a very hard place to navigate if you're trying to help. Thank you. I agree with you there fully. Any other comment or board discussion? Is there a public comment on this, Ms. Bradshaw? No. All right. All right. The board will now vote on Resolution 6965. Resolution adopt revised Promotion and Retention of Students Policy 4.2 0.010 p. All in favor, please indicate by saying yes. Yes. Yes. All opposed? Police indicate by saying no. I did just realize that Director Holland stepped out. We got four. We're good. All right. Not enough people to abstain. Student representative concave, do you have. Please indicate your vote. Yes. Thank you. Resolution 6965 is approved by a vote of 4 to 0 with student representative savvy unofficially voting yes. All right, next up we have. The next item we have is the field trips, foreign travel and other off campus activities policy. I'm actually going to share some of my thinking about this policy and actually why. I'm going to request why we not be voting on this. This Even before I turn this over to Director Brimmeyevich to introduce us, I would like to actually ask Director Armstrong to share some thoughts on this topic. Sorry, Superintendent Armstrong. Yeah, no, I appreciate that. And I know that there is an important conversation with foreign travel and I know that it has been something that has been talked about for quite some time. And I know that we're calibrating as a new team as superintendent coming in and with the board as my supervisors and really understanding the policies that we create and making sure that we are creating the policies that best serve our school communities. And, and so I know that there is a in the administrative directive, I know that there's a clause where there is some exceptions that can be made for travel to extend past five days. And so I think I just wanted to publicly state that for foreign travel for this coming year that I would be looking at that travel as an acceptance so that we're able to get our student groups out to get educational experiences in other countries. Thank you, Superintendent Director Brim Edwards. Do you want me to say it now? Okay, yeah. So kind of a little bit backstory. Thank you for that. Part of the reason I kind of brought this policy forward was because there was a previous field trip policy and an administrative director that came about that had some other repercussions that was going on. And this was kind of one of the only ways and you forward. Although I did not really like the policy that we were, you know, try to move forward because again, I do not think that good policy is one that should be prescriptive and in the weeds of management. That's why I'm recommending it go back now. One of the things, the reason why I'm also would like to recommend this go back to Policy Committee is because during this whole process, when we're talking about extended research residencies abroad, it brought up some other issues that came up with the field trip policy as well in terms of a lot of the prescriptive natures of it, the kind of managerial issues and some of the red tape that has unintended consequences. And this I think is a good opportunity to kind of send it back to Policy Committee to kind of relook at some of those issues and potentially refine the policy to become a better policy. So, so that's why I'm recommending to move it back to Policy Committee. So I'm going to start by making a motion and then I'll speak to it afterwards. So I'm going to move that we move this policy back to the Policy Committee for further discussion and possible modification. Second Great. We have just as a point of order, so we have to vote to send it back to the policy committee or we can just send it back to the policy committee. That might be a question. I think the policy. I don't have it in front of me, but the policy on policies gives that one of the options. So this was noticed to be a second reading and a vote on the policy as presented. I think this is a friendly vote so I wouldn't be overwhelmed with process. But if there's consensus to send it back as opposed to voting on the policy that's in the materials, I think it makes sense to have a motion and make sure the board is aligned on that. Yeah, it's just more verbalistic because it was a noticed agenda item. So normally you table it voted up or down and so instead just remove it off the agenda. And I don't want to be overwhelmed by process. Certainly I think in the past we have occasionally even a second rate set things back to the policy committee without a vote. So I'm just actually trying to be consistent. Sounds like we don't need a vote, but we're going to take a vote, which is fine. I just want to make sure we're not setting a precedent here in terms of how to deal with these things in the future. I'm not recalling with precision exactly the procedural mechanism here. I think to make sure there's consensus of the board of what the next step is. A vote is the clearest way to do that. But if there's verbal consensus, I don't think there's a problem with that either. I think make the point is to make sure that there's alignment on the board on the next step. But just to be clear, we're not voting on the resolution that was noticed. Correct. And that's just going to disappear? It's not been put on the table since it's been moved a second. You want to ask for discussion? Yeah. Thank you. Director Bryn Woodwards moves and Director Holland seconds to send policy 6.5 0.010 back to policy committee for further discussion. Potential revision. Do we vote first or there's discussion? You asked if there's any discussion. Is there any discussion? So I'm supporting moving back to committee. I will say that this is something that we worked on for the last several months at Director Wong's request because of the policy that was in the ad. And Superintendent Armstrong, with your statement tonight. I hope we will be mindful of why we had some of the provisions in the policy that might. That might seem prescriptive. But this policy, some of the provisions came about because of not because, anyway, this. The trip wasn't an excellent learning opportunity, but because the students who were left behind were not supported in ways in which they should have not done on the trip. And sometimes what happens when the district is inattentive to students? We had several formal complaints. What happens is parents asked to have something put into policy so that they have some rights that they can point to. So just like the students who are traveling, the students who aren't traveling also have a right to have the continuity of their education and their learning experience. So it's often this conversation about this particular policy becomes that there's some sort of effort to deny students who are traveling the opportunity. In reality, the main issues that have been raised have been ones raised by families whose students did not go on the trip who weren't receiving an equitable learning opportunity during the time those students were gone, whether it was because staff were attending the trip that normally would be teaching students who stayed behind, or the curriculum got paused, or a whole variety of things. So I want to be clear, when things go back, I'm certainly going to, because in my district, I have schools that have. I have a lot of the schools, actually, that have the Mandarin program, the Japanese language program, and also the Vietnamese. But I have students on both sides. And I want us to be just as attentive to the great exceptional learning opportunity that students have when they travel. But I also want the students who are the majority of the students who aren't traveling to also be able to get the instruction that they deserve. So I just. I don't want to lose that, because often it becomes focused on the students who are traveling and not the other students. Yeah. If I may, I think I appreciate the point, and I know that we've had multiple discussions about this, and I think from my perspective, the policy talks about foreign travel, not necessarily those who are left behind after trouble. While I do think it's a sickness, again, point. And we want all of our students to have a quality experience. I feel like that's something policy, procedure, system or whatever, wherever that may fall, that we can have a conversation as a management team to make sure that we're properly supporting. I mean, in the rise of technology, there's so many things and experiences that we can bring to students as well. And so I receive your point and your message, and I understand how there was a time where we needed to put things in policy to ensure that students had quality learning experiences. And my hope moving forward is that policy can be just policy and that we can work out the things that need to be worked out to make sure that our classrooms are a place for learning all the time, no matter who's there. So I'll just add some comments on this. And thank you, Superintendent. I really appreciate hearing that. I think that's the most important thing. I'll echo what Director Bermedwartz said about concerns overall about, you know, we want these students to have this incredible educational experience. We also want the students who are going, you know, to have a great, incredible educational experience. And I also think staff have raised legitimate concerns about even the students going. That's an incredible experience. But there are other things that they might be missing. And again, I would love to see these kids go for 10 days. And if we can work that out by missing only five days of school, as many of our immersion programs have done, that's perfect. I also think there may be room or need for some exemptions. I think those exceptions should be made at your level. And I think that's where I'm going to vote in support of sending this back tonight because again, I think the policy is far too prescriptive. And I think that these questions about the right educational attainment for the students going, the students left behind, these are very, very operational decisions that should be made by a student superintendent and not by the board. I want to add a couple of other things since we're sending it back. Just to put these on the record, I do think the policy overall is pretty poorly constructed in the sense that right now the five day limits in AD again, the amendments sort of talked about putting the 10 day limit in policy. Again, I'm going to say the policy should be very brief, represent sort of the board's overall values around this type of travel and leave the details to the administrative directive. So I hope the policy committee does that as we move forward and that shows up in a few different places. And then bear with me. I think the most important change we need to make is to actually strike the board's approval of field trips. And I know it's going to get some chuckles because I say it all the time. But I'm going to come back. I'm going to come back and make this point. We had a retreat just a week ago where we had this conversation. We all agreed, as we always do in these retreats and when we talk to the cops at great city schools, that the board's role is not to get involved in operations. Field trip approval is 100% an operational duty. And so the idea that we as a board are Going to be approving field trips is just bizarre. To start with, Director Mamedra sent around some really interesting data showing that of all the field trips that happened, I didn't count it up. It looked like, you know, maybe 10 to 20% actually come to the board. Which just highlights even more the absurdity of us playing a role in appropriate. We don't approve most field trips in this district. The idea that a foreign field trip or an out of state field trip is somehow riskier is also faulty. I mean, there are plenty of risky field trips that can happen inside the state as well that the board never sees. Another thing this board has talked about is, oh, this is the way we get information. But actually, Director Medwards analysis that she sent us or data that she sent us actually shows that we're not getting information about field trips from the ones that we approve because it's a very small portion. And so we're seeing actually a very select number of field terms. So I would say if that's an important consideration of the board to understand where kids are going, what schools are going, you know, et cetera, we should ask you to provide us with a report. And I think the board could ask for yearly reports twice a year, four times a year. I think anything we ask for, the superintendent's going to provide us in terms of comprehensive data around field trips. So I really. I'll just say on the record right now, I will not vote for a field trip policy that comes back to us that requires board approval because it's an operational decision. It has nothing to do with policy, and it's not an appropriate board role to politicize the approval of field trips. It also creates a ton of work for staff and a ton of. Also a ton of work for staff all the way at the school level as well. Yeah, I will just say it's my understanding that they do that for the risk. I mean, we get what's been presented. Not because this is what we said we needed, but what the district requires. Is that. Right. I'm looking at you because you have risk in your. It's substantially the same information. There's incrementally additional preparation, those materials for the board, but the bulk of it is the same information that RISC receives. What's different? The delay of waiting for board approval can cause issues with field trips delay. There's a summary of the trips that's in the board resolution. I mean, it's incremental, but generally those are things that risk requires. Risk requires the materials that describe the field trip, the activities taken, the planning. It doesn't require the board resolution. The room right where students are saying whether people have had the training, whether they've had their security, background checks, which are all things that happen anyway. I guess I will just. Not that we need to have this discussion here, but I'll just. This is additive and not in conflict, I don't think. But I will say that one of the things when the board actually there was a while in which the district didn't follow that practice. And when the board started looking at the field trips, what became clear is certain school communities that had the resources. And I think that's still true today. If you look at most of the field trips, that there's more field trips from schools that have school communities with more resources. And as a result of that, I will say one thing that came out of it in the budget is that the board created an equity fund so that students have an opportunity that if their school community can't afford it, that there's some district funds to pay for that. And to me, one of the values of looking at the data, whether it's a small group of data or the large group of data, both groups of data said the same thing. Which is the worst resources a school community has, the more likely they are to travel. So I do think there's some budgetary and policy implications about field trips and travel. And then I think I'm going to just one last thing because I've. For 15 to 20 years this has been an issue. Is the last time this came up, the agreement was the trips would happen and certain protections would be in place for students that were left behind and that the district would create a middle school capstone project for all of our students. And sometimes what happens is when things don't happen, then people feel like they need to have it like in a way that's like some sort of guarantee. And we didn't put the middle school capstone project in policy, and it didn't really happen. I mean, that was 2018, that we were promised that all middle schoolers would have this sort of really cool experience. And so when things. Again, when things don't happen, people feel a need to get things more in writing. And so I think that's sometimes what happens when things get in policy is because the district didn't follow through with some something. So just putting that out there, that there's a lot of parents who have expectations and they don't know how to affect change. So if it's not policy or something. The budget and the district has committed to something like, how does it happen? And I think that's what we all need to wrestle with because I don't think anyone want to say, hey, we're not going to put this in policy, but we're going to make a commitment like, like how do we follow through and make sure that what we've committed to do with our community actually happens? Thank you for those comments. I just want to add, as also a former teacher, our sports teams miss way more than 10 days and they do so consistently. And there are ways as a teacher, as a competent teacher that, you know, I support sports, I support those experiences that, you know, competent teachers know how to minimize the impact when kids are away. And you know, when the, you know, I kind of get away with kind of the old school way of thinking that, like, kids are sponges and they have, you know, the teacher's liver of information. But, you know, the best practice today doesn't work that way. You know, it's very project oriented. And you know, I know when I remember during track where like half my 8th period class would be gone and you know, you would set up these projects where the kids who aren't on the track team or baseball team or softball team because they all seem to go at the same time. I don't know why. One time I had a class of 30 with only five kids left, but I magically assigned them to the same group and it was magically. And you know, there are things that I think again, like a lot of problems solving can happen locally. Like for example, when you have other teachers not inside the DLI program going on this trip, yes, it does impact, and that is not fair. But a principal can solve that, right? A principal can say, hey, we can't allow this to happen again. And it doesn't happen again, problem solved. So I just want to make sure that we focus that we really make sure that the problem we're trying to solve is first and foremost and we focus on that. And because one of the problems is trying to solve around the problem, you could create unintended consequences. Like, for example, like I said this kind of maybe I'm hoping this is a lot of good things come out of this because during exploring this field trip thing, there's been a lot of issues that have come up where I've heard from some vice principals, principals that saying that some of these, because of the new policy and all the steps they have to go through, it's actually disinvent incentivizing field trips from happening and worried that even in some of our schools that serve our poorer areas, the impact is even larger because they have even less resources. So I just want to also put out there we have to be very careful about how. How prescriptive our policies are because there could potentially be a lot of unintended consequences. Anyone else? It would be great in committee to hear about what schools are being incentivized by the filter policy. Because actually I think we have more students from school communities that couldn't afford it going on trips because of the fund that the board set up. And I haven't heard of any school community saying because they have to fill out the form that they always have to fill out the form that they're not going. Which is why I really supportive sending this back. I mean we should have this discussion in policy committee. You're absolutely right. Any other board comments discussion we have. It looks like we have some people sign up for public comment and a call to vote. He's asking for public comment on. On the field. On the field trip policy, right? Yeah. I saw there were some people signed up for the general public comment period that were actually wanting to speak for the field trip policy. Could we move those people to this comment period? Yes. I will call them in two groups to come up to the table and each other time. Valerie Turner. Betha Tawny. Mike Benson. And I'm sure you've heard it like three times already. But the general guidelines for public comment, I'm sure you know, I think there's three minutes per person. You'll hear a warning and please finish up for the last 30 seconds. My name is Mike Benson. I'm a middle school math teacher at Harrison Park. Apologize. I have a persistent cough. My immune system got walloped this year and I'm fine now, but I had that persistent cough. I'm speaking to you tonight as a representative and with the support of all the 8th grade core teachers at Harrison Park. As a classroom teacher, I hope to give you insight into the benefits and challenges of these trips for individual students at our classrooms. I would like to first speak about the benefits for the individual students. My wife and I just recently had the opportunity to go on a trip of a lifetime to Italy for our 25th wedding anniversary. To prepare for this trip, we took language classes and read all the books that you read when you go on a trip like this. We studied the culture, customs and saw pictures of the Sistine Chapel. But none of those classes or books could replace the experience of standing in the middle of the room looking at that ceiling. With those people as dedicated and talented as our emergent teachers are, it is impossible for them to provide the benefits our students can glean from the firsthand opportunity that these trips provide. As educators, we are prepping our students to be their best selves, best citizens, best workforce, and best well rounded people that they could be. We are in the middle of a presidential election year and I am sad when I think about how my experience as an American is so different from that of many others, all determined by the algorithm that feeds me news and information. My point is that in a world where we are all siloed with regard to our experiences, the opportunity to break from our experiences and see our world through the lens of other people, particularly that of another culture, is so valuable that I am surprised that we are considering eliminating this opportunity. Our students will be better citizens as a result of this experience, something we all hope to achieve. As to the impact to the students and the standards that they may miss, I believe this is something that can be resolved by setting exponential expectations. Given adequate time, it would not be difficult to front load the lessons, work and expectations as a condition of the trip. The few lessons that they may miss are no different than if a student misses classes for other obligations. We work with the students and families to provide the support the student needs so they do not fall behind. We as educators meet the needs of our students and the needs of these students include the experience of the trips so they can get the most benefit from their emergent educational program. There may be an impact for the rest of the classes not attending a trip. I have two things about that. One, please not at the expense of the experience of these immersion students. Secondly, this impact can be mitigated with proper planning so the trip will not affect the scope and sequence of the curriculum. It will take a dedicated approach from the emergent students, but these students are usually the students who rise to whatever challenges thrown at them. Thank you very much. Hello members of the board and of the community. My name is Valerie Turner. It's T U R N E R and I teach English Language Arts and social sciences at Mount Taylor Middle School. I've been with this district since 2006 and I'm honored to be in my fourth year at Mount Tabor where roughly half of our students are in the Japanese Dual Language Immersion Program, or JDLI as we call it, and half of our students are from the neighborhood and other special programs. If you're not aware, the 8th grade students in the JDLI program at Mount Tabor have the tremendous privilege of traveling to Japan. The PPS staff Recommendation suggests that 10 days of travel are not recoverable and I disagree. I fully support 10 days of travel for JDLI colleagues and students and 20 of my Mount Tabor colleagues have co signed that they agree with me. I am here this evening to share my perspective as a classroom teacher of the Left behind students and I have three reasons why PPS should allow up to 10 days of travel. First reason teaching and learning don't stop when half the students are away. My colleagues and I work hard to plan ahead for what we teach and when we teach it. Thanks to the Pandemic, my colleagues and I are all highly skilled at creating online instructional resources. That was a little bit of sarcasm. If you're not sure Our district requires us anyway for any child who might miss school for any reason at all. The past two years at Mount Tabor during the Japan Research Residency, the English Language Arts team taught a unit that included tribal history shared history lessons required by Senate Bill 13. We set the lessons up to be accessed early and asynchronously. Yes, it's true that a small handful of traveling students didn't access these lessons, but that's not unusual. If you've ever worked with eighth graders after spring break, you know this reality. At Mount Tabor, we use standards based grading and if a student misses one assessment, that same priority standard will be assessed again before the end of the quarter anyway. Instruction and learning continue for both the Left behind students and the traveling students. My second reason I know language immersion experiences are priceless. I was lucky enough to have that experience myself in high school and in college and there is no better way to spark language skills. Of course I want that opportunity for any of our language learning students and I wish these experiences were available for all of our dual language immersion students. Students. However, education is not a zero sum game. Students who get to travel with DLI groups are not taking away education from our neighborhood students. If anything, our neighborhood students get additional teacher time and support. Since many of our 8th grade class sizes are smaller when the JDLI students are away, I know my time's almost out. I'd like to give an example that the JDLI trip inspired my neighborhood colleagues and I to put together an Oregon Research residency and we launched it for the first time last year. We were crazy enough to take 70 students to Eastern Oregon for five days and four nights and there was no wi fi and no cell service and it was absolutely amazing. I am certain that in 10 years my students will remember details of their Oregon research residency better than faculty about westward expansion. They read in a curriculum app believe educators when they say they need 10 days. Please believe them. They are the ones getting on the plane with the students. They are the ones dealing with jet lag. I would like to support my DLI educators. Thank you for your time. Good evening Board and Superintendent Armstrong. Welcome. For the record, my name is Letha Tawney Tawney. I'm a parent at Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. And Harriet Tubman Middle School and my family has participated in the Albina Mandarin Immersion Program since its second year. Like you, I am also a public official. I have to make decisions based on the record before me in my role as an Oregon Public Utility Commissioner. This is a really hard job. You have what appears to be an expert opinion from the PPS administration and as decision makers, expertise carries real weight when we grapple with these complex decisions. In this case, however, the administration opinions not supported by the evidence and seems to be based on misrepresentations, misunderstandings and I fear some harmful assumptions. As a decision maker, I want to be guided by evidence and not misdirected. So I'm particularly troubled by the administration's misleading assertions about cost, scheduling and the impacts on learning. First, the administration misrepresents that PPS bears hundreds of thousands of dollars in cost when the truth is PPS invoices the parent organizations for those costs and I know that because I raised the money to cover those invoices when they come in and make sure that our treasurer writes the check. And that's in a way that no other PPS trip is required to do. Second, the administration opinion ignores the well documented scheduling constraint of our sister schools. Our Taiwanese partners have been really clear they cannot host us over spring break because they are preparing for high stakes national tests. So this year the Mandarin DLI program will not be able to travel over spring break because our host school will not be able to support us. Third, the PPS administrators boldly assert that the trip is negative impact impacts on learning, but they provide no statistical analysis of the many decades of testing data that they have access to. They could analyze seventh and eighth grade student performance in core subjects to demonstrate negative impacts if they existed. They do not. Most troubling administrators argue without evidence that if traveling and non traveling students are not both at their desks, everyone's achievement will falter. And this assertion in my experience is part of the constant doubt in Albina students ability to close the achievement gap if they're Given the same opportunities that wealthy students can already access through their families. There's an explicit assumption that I've run into repeatedly that our families and students can't achieve anything beyond the basics, that we can't manage extras like DLI as long as the achievement can exists. Adding insult to injury, rather than following the policy as written now and vest this decision with principles, administrators seem to think they need to override principles to safeguard achievement. Our principles are not pushovers. They prioritize excellence and achievement. And I have a lot of confidence in their knowledge of our community. Thank you very much for your deep consideration about the issue. And Dr. Armstrong, I really welcome your announcement. I just want to thank all three of you for testifying and I actually thank you very much, particularly the educators. I would love for you to participate in our policy making process as it goes forward. I think that's a voice I would love to hear more from, particularly the teachers who are directly impacted by these programs. So thank you for being here. Oops. Is that on me? She started talking. We have Kira Jones and Maya Mori and Christine Hanse who are sharing their time. And just to clarify, Kira Jones is not generic her time. Good evening esteemed board Superintendent Armstrong. My name is Kira Jones. K I R A J O N E S I am the 8th grade math and algebra one teacher over at Harriet Tubman Middle School. Just right around the corner. And at our school we are gifted to have our Mandarin immersion program. I've had Students in my 8th grade math class and in my algebra class work on their Mandarin and talk to me consistently throughout the year. Getting prepared for this trip. It is not a single conversation that they have. They are well prepared. They talk to their educators about what they're learning and what they're going to miss. And the great thing about them is, as my previous educators have said, they are more than willing to go forth and step up to get the learning done when they come back or prior to their leaving if it doesn't work prior. Like we've said, we're mandated to put a canvas website together with all the learning that we're doing for all of our students who are missing days for whatever reason, they have those resources available. It's not an extra workload for us educators. What does come up though is there's no difference for our students who stay behind. We are still going forth with our our curriculum. We are still moving and pacing. The rigor doesn't change. We are able to continue our programs with our students that are staying behind while our DLI students are having this wonderful immersion experience that for some of them, especially the students that I have, might be the only opportunity for them to travel internationally. And that's a big thing for them. And I will say that if I talk to my Algebra 1 students who also are in a class that is for high school credit, that is added pressure to them these 10 days and they still come back from their program, they talk with all of their educators, they make plans to make up the work and they still get their high school credit. They work hard and they have worked hard for their entire school program up to that point for this trip. And it is extremely important that they still have the ability to do that for 10 days so that they get the full experience that the Mandarin program has said they would give them. Hello, my name is Maya Mori, M O R I and I'm Christine Hanilsey H A N O L S Y We are parents in the Japanese Dual Language Immersion Program and Oyanokai Board members, the parent group that supports the jdli. Thank you for your time and the opportunity to clarify some of the points outlined in the PPS staff recommendation regarding the field trip policy. First, we ask that the district provide evidence of the stated learning loss over 10 days for both traveling and non traveling students. In our 20 years of offering research residencies we have never seen data that supports this claim. An ideal learning environment is when students are prepared, rested and ready to engage in a classroom. This applies to learning in another country and also when returning home. We strongly feel that 10 school days is the appropriate amount of time needed to travel internationally with students, acclimate to a different time zone and environment and learn effectively. It is important to note that while we all traveled over school breaks last year, this was a one time accommodation. Not sustainable. It is also not sustainable for our partner schools and it is disrespectful to their school calendars and cultures. In addition, the staff recommendation implies that the fiscal impact is to the district. This is simply not true as the cost of these exchanges is paid for by the participants including the sub fees for school administrators and teachers. Our parent organizations fund and provide scholarships so that no student is excluded based on financial need. Historically, 96 to 100% of 8th grade Asian DLI students participate. The limitation of travel days and the shortened planning time last year created huge increase in costs. It was also very challenging for our partner schools in Japan and limited their ability to create a robust academic experience for our traveling students. So I would like to finish by talking about aspirations, about inspiration and about the kind of school district that we'd like Portland Public to be. A graduate of Portland Public Schools will be a compassionate, critical thinker, able to collaborate and solve problems and be prepared to lead a more socially just world. That's our own vision statement. It should be our aspiration and our inspiration. There will always be challenges when taking students off campus, whether that's for one day, five days, or 10. By forcing an arbitrary limit on travel days, we are assuming that our students, teachers and school communities cannot plan for and rise up to those challenges. I think they deserve better. When we allow optics to overshadow opportunities and policies to stifle imagination, we teach our children that it is not worth striving for something that requires effort. As parents, we'd like to see our district be the kind of place that inspires students to reach for greater learning opportunities and broader perspectives. We'd like it to be a place where teachers are supported and encouraged to discover new ways of inspiring our students and where students of every background are given opportunities to inspire each other. We ask that you trust our PPS students and educators to rise up to any challenges and that you support the kids continued success at the DLI Research residencies. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you everyone for sharing your comment. Thank you for the teachers for coming and sharing your comments as well. Especially since you have to get up early tomorrow and take on a whole bunch of 150 more kids. Right? So I really appreciate you taking the time. All right. We will now move to. We'll now vote on the motion to move policy 6.5 0.010 back to policy committee. All right, all those in favor, please indicate by saying yes. Yes. All those opposed, please say no. Any abstentions? And Student Representative Kotevi unofficially voting yes. Great. All right. All right. The motion to move policy 6.5 0.010 back to policy committee is approved by a vote of 5 to 0, with student representative Savean officially voting yes. Quick question. Question to comment. So I've heard a couple comments around the cost for pps. I heard some I would like, if you endure in the committee meeting, if you can kind of clear, clear that up. I don't want. I want to make sure we're clear on if the district has some financial responsibility for versus I know all the money that they raise for the trip. So I want to make sure that we are getting clarification on that as well. And I just want to say, at least for myself and I'm sure for the rest of the board I don't think none of us here is saying that we don't think these kids should be deserving of going on this trip. I think from a board level, we're looking at the policy of what should be in the policy versus, you know, us not want the kids to go into jail, if that makes sense. Like, we're looking at the policy that the superintendent, the principals, the teachers should be able to make these kind of decisions and not have it in a board policy. So I think that's what we're really trying to figure out. If they're not that we're for or against them going or not. That's it. Thank you. Thank you. Do we see that? Okay, we'll move on. We are moving on to public comment. Next up, we have General Public comment. Ms. Brusho, do we have anyone who signed up for public comment? Yes. Left over. Oh, yay. Great. Because I've already given guidelines to public comment three times. I will not repeat them, but I will remind PPS staff who are giving public comments that they may not provide testimony about students or that could violate confidential protections under ferpa. This includes testimony using information that could identify students, especially in their school community, by use of direct or indirect linkages such as school grade, special education or other status. Please make sure when you begin your comments that you clearly state your name and spell your last name. You will have three minutes to speak and you will hear a sound after three minutes, which means you have 3:30 seconds to wrap up. Thank you. You have Clarence Larkin, senior. My name is Clarence Larkins. Larkins lar k I n s And I'm here to talk to you guys about a proposal I put together. It's called Pugo Black family Village. It's for a program in our community, the colored community. We have lost 50% of the black people in our community because we don't have anything to staple to keep our community, keep the people in the community. So we came up with a plan that caused po Black family Village. It's been going up for about in 2014. We talk about a property that's been vacant since 2006. It's in the middle of our community. It's like 10 acres right in the center of our community. So we had to come up with a plan. What can we do with this? So we can help the people in the community and keep the children off the streets. So we came up with an idea for a community center. And it was 132 of us in the community got together and came up with what we thought we would need, a community center, a library where we got a pool gathering space. And so we came up with seven different things that we could use for this for the village. And I came up with a plan. The deputy general did an article on me. It was called Clarence Larkin's Field of Dreams, called the Field of Dreams because I didn't have any money, but I gave up the idea. So it was just a dream. But in The Meanwhile, in 2022, Prosper Portland saw what we was doing in our community and we put together what's called a TIF plan. And they got awarded 353, $350 million for the community to build up our community. And when I came up with that idea, we're doing a meeting where we in front of the city council for a proposal for this property and school board. Somebody from the school board, Cameron, zoomed in the middle of the meeting and said the property's not available. And even when they talked the paper theft, the property wasn't available because there was no school there. But anyway, 2022, $350 million became available for our community. And so I put together this plan called the Pure Black Fund. This is the proposal for it. You guys chance to take a look at it. I met with Dan Jones with Department of Public Schools and I met with him. He said he'll get back to me in two weeks to give me an answer about the property. Well, it's been a couple of years. No one's got in touch with me about the property. And I just want to say that this is my third time coming to you guys to talk to you about this project. We got the money, we got a plan. So we must accept it's an empty field and we're starting to get a lot of homeless people there now that's causing a lot of problems in the community. So I would like for you guys to make a decision on this property for us. Great. Thank you for your. Thank you. I just want to say clear up some a little bit clarification. I'm part of Culley TIFF as well. And the money just for that is for a wide range of priorities, which a community center is one. So it's for a wide range of investment in the Cully neighborhood. And that $300 million is not available up front is over a course of 30 years, which the majority of that money comes in towards the end of that 30 years. I just wanted to make sure we was clear on that. Yeah, I know I'm part of It. I know, I get it. I just want to make sure we was clear on the money piece. Gary and I have had many conversations about this property because he has a plan for the property as well. Yeah, everybody's aware of the two. The two plan. I just wanted to make sure we was clear about the, the money piece. So it became political, far as I'm concerned. Became political. Then they never gave me a real opportunity because Gary wants property. I don't think that's fair. I think, you know, I represent. I represent the people in the community and I think we should have a fair opportunity to get that property and build on for our community. Yeah. And, and once again, I'm not. I don't want to be combative and argument minute around this. I think something should be there as well, whether it's what we have going or something going. I've always been at a point of having something there. I don't, I don't think that comment is fair world. They didn't give you a time of day because I came on the scene because you was doing this before me from what you're saying. So I don't necessarily. I don't want you to think it's because of what I'm trying to do is stopping for you from what you're trying to do. Sorry, Director Hollings, are you okay? If you would like to move on. Oh, sorry. Yeah. Sorry to interrupt. Yeah. Thank you for your testimony and thank you for taking the time to come and share your thoughts. Okay, thank you. All right, next up, we have comments from our union partners. I know we have you scheduled for 7:30. It's now 7:53. I'm very sorry. I know unexpectedly, people here really like to talk. All right. Hello. Super. Superintendent Armstrong, Chair Wong, School Board directors and Student Representative Kansevi. Yes. Great. Thank you for the time to address this body. Oh, we've got friends on the screen. My name is Angela Bonilla and I'm the president of the Portland association of Teachers. As always, I want to start off with kudos. Kudos to the new superintendent, Superintendent Armstrong, for your open communication and collaborative spirit. It's been a breath of fresh air to work with a superintendent who actually wants to hear the good, the bad and the ugly from workers. As I've said publicly before, I've had more one on one conversations with Dr. Armstrong, Superintendent Armstrong, since she's joined the team than I had the entire two years previously. So she is commissioned, committed to staying at pps. And I look forward to the work that we'll be able to do, to accomplish, to serve our students and our educators. Also, kudos to Chair Wong. We're only 23 minutes behind. I think your pacing is great and a testament to your skill and experience as a high school educator. So thank you for keeping the meeting going without limiting debate or silencing voices. Kudos to the staff and administrators at our new committee, Community schools and neighborhood schools across North Portland. I visited several of these sites, including Rosa Parks, Siton, Aster and Peninsula. The staff and administrators are fiercely advocating for their students and staff and they care for their community and it shows. Also, kudos to our labor partners at DCU for settling their contract and kudos to educators across the district who used our new contract language to demand heat mitigation plans at each school and follow the temperatures and track those temperatures with the heat index tools that we were provided at our schools. So now we have better data to better understand the issues in our buildings and folks are upholding that contract language. So with this new school year, we have several opportunities to build on the movement for great public schools for all students that unions across the districts across the state of Oregon have been fighting for. With a new biennium funding biennium starting, we have an opportunity to work together as the largest district and the largest educator union in the state to advocate for, at minimum, funding at the QEM level. The yeah, it's a floor, not a ceiling. The other fight that we need to put to the forefront is an increase in funding for special education and removing that cap. I visited, as I said, some of our neighborhood schools, and as amazing as the staff and administrators are that are working to ensure a free and appropriate education for all students, the resources are still not there. It's on the backs of these workers that we as a district stay even remotely in compliance with the law. So we need more adaptive PE teachers, more specialists for our feeding team, more support with assistive technology. But that doesn't mean that we should walk away from the vision of full inclusion with support. It means that we need more funding from the state to ensure that we can support the students in our care. And it also means that we need affordable housing across the city so we can maintain our student population. Y'all have probably seen the report from PSU around enrollment projections, and it's a. It's a much larger report than in past years. And it shows that enrollment is declining, but that students aren't going to private schools because those enrollments are also declining. Students and families are being priced out of our neighborhoods and into the suburbs. So if we want to stabilize our funding, we also need to stabilize our enrollment and work together across all these fields so that we can ensure our communities can afford to live and learn in Portland. I do also want to bring to Yalls attention a survey that was sent to families at the end of June, which several concerned parents sent to our community organizer at pat. So the survey was talking about the next bond, and it asked communities if they would be in support of a bond that would provide funding to build a laboratory school associated with the center for Black Student Excellence that would be operated by an existing charter school. So I just want to sound the alarm about the idea that charter schools and private schools are better for our systemically and historically underserved students, our black and brown babies, because there are many studies and personal stories that have shown that that is not the case. What charter schools sometimes offer that our families have voiced the need for is more representation and shared decision making. So families want to have a say in ensuring that their students are supported regardless of need and that they receive culturally responsive education. We also heard from several of those charter school educators at multiple sites that they love their students and community, but also want to be unionized and supported by pat. So all families deserve that type of direct, collaborative support, not just those who get enrolled in a charter school. And all workers deserve a union, not just those working in our public schools, but also in our public charter schools. So instead of moving along the spectrum of privatization towards charter schools, instead of moving public funds to private hands, we need to build strong communities schools. As I've shared before, I'm very, very happy that we are. We have begun doing the work of community schools here in Portland Public Schools. In that programming. There is federal funding available for community schools which hold the four pillars, expanded and enriched learning, time and opportunities, integrated support for students, active family and community engagement, and last and I think most importantly, collaborative leadership and practices. These practices deliver on the false promises that our private schools make. We want staff, educators and students and community to feel connected and an integral part of the decision making at our schools. We can build a better system. And I am so excited for the former beloved and respected Fabian Principal, Dr. Carmen Williams, to lead the work in the community schools here at pbs. And I hope that we can all be part partners in this work at the table with families and community organizations, administrators and other represented staff as well. I also look forward to meeting our new director for the center of Black Student Excellence once that position is filled so that we can all work together to build a strong public school system that gives every student what they need without exception. We'll continue to work in Salem for the additional funding we need to invest in all of our students and our system across the district. Because together we can and we will demand funding for a school system that is worthy of the communities that we serve. And together we can build community schools that support all of our students. So to take a page from the superintendent's book, I know that together we will rise. So thank you for the time. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we also have Jennifer Sherman from from seiu. Hello, my name is Jennifer Sherman, last name S H E R M A N. My name is Cody Vae, last name boy Adam Edward Zebra. So representatives from SEIU140, including myself, had the opportunity over the past week to meet with three board members and we're very encouraged by those meetings to say that there is hope that the new superintendent's vision of cooperation with the unions might be possible after all. An issue we had we have made the board aware of on many occasions and have had to continue pushing with these individual meetings is the district's handling of inclement weather pay. As we discussed with a few of you individually, many custodians are still in limbo under the demands to repay part of our retroactive payments. That came after nearly a year of bargaining. This inclement weather pay was well earned by custodians who worked through through deadly weather and is only even in question due to significant delays by the district during our contract bargaining period. Everyone we've spoken to agrees the custodians should not have to pay for this mistake by the district. And yet it has been five months now and we still have not seen any significant movement at all on the district side to correct this. Through our meeting with Gary Hollins, we were able to finally get our first communication in more than two months back from the labor relations team handling this issue. Unfortunately, that email was merely a request for a non member SEIU represent SEIU representative to call her. Instead of any attempt to actually resolve this issue with our members, we submitted a memor memorandum of agreement to the district in July after meeting where the labor relations representative told us in the presence of the superintendent that all she needed to get this done was this document. We are asking the board to bring this MOU to a vote with no more delays and in five months of distress for our members who are among the lowest paid in the district and cannot afford to repay this money. In the midst of this, we have Come all the way. In the midst of this we have come all the way to a new period of inclement weather last week where despite district communication that all staff and students in non air conditioning buildings would be released due early due to the high temperatures, custodians were as always, the unspoken expectations. Night custodians worked in every one of these buildings through the worst of the evening's heat doing physically demanding work and in long pants required by the district guidelines despite not being required by Oregon OSHA and in these situations adding significant risk of heat related illnesses. For several of our non AC schools, they were ranging somewhere in the ballpark of 90 to 100 degrees. Just for some reference, the district has yet again decided that this somehow does not warrant inclement weather pay despite our contract language saying clearly otherwise. This is seemingly a never ending battle with district management and every time we think we're making a step forward together, we see the district take two steps back. We thank you for your time and hope to continue moving to a more cooperative future together. Thank you. Thank you for sharing. Just. I just got one comment. I thought hello, how you guys doing? So I just wanted to make sure. I don't know if you guys but I know there was an email that was sent out to Joe and I. I don't think he was on vacation. So there have been some stuff. I just want to make sure that we are working on it. But understanding that it did email went out to Joe and we're trying to figure out he was on vacation or something. So I just wanted to make sure it's clear that we are, we are working on it. Yeah, there was a request for Jim to call or for Joe to call her back. Our co chair, our custodial co chair Jim Darcy tried to make that contact instead and has not been able to get any reply back. But we're hoping that we have more momentum now than we did a week ago by a long shot. So. Well, I'm confident, I just want to say I'm confident that we have a path towards resolution and communication folks will meet and have the appropriate conversations. We're pretty confident we have a path towards resolution. Great. Thank you both our representatives from seiu. Again your feedback that you can give is always very valuable and thank you President Bonilla, as you're exiting. Always good to hear your voice too. Goodbye. All right with that. So next up we have update on Summer Acceleration Academy. Superintendent Armstrong, would you please introduce this item? Absolutely. Thank you. Chair one. I'm excited to introduce this topic this evening as our summer school programming is certainly a bright spot and a critical piece to accelerating student achievement. So the team comes forward and takes their seat. They will be sharing a brief overview of the topic which was requested by the board. And with us we have our Chief Academic Officer, Christina Howard. Emily Glasgow, Director of Early Learning and all the things is what I like to say. Yes. And then Darcy Soto, our Director of Learning Acceleration. Thank you for being here. The floor is yours. Thank you for the introduction. I'm just going to pass it over to my team sitting here. Great. Good evening all. Thanks for having us and requesting this update again. I'm Emily Glaskawa. I'm the Senior director for pre K5 academics and recently have inherited the honor of also getting to oversee our Summer Acceleration Academy program and Learning Acceleration. We wanted to start our update this evening by naming and acknowledging all of the PPS summer programs that ran this summer. As you can see on the slide, we had programs supporting the acceleration and transition of close to 4,000 pre K through 12th grade students run by PPS staff this summer. And I want to take a moment to just give a special shout out to all the administrators, teachers and classified staff who sacrificed part of their summer vacation to show up in support of students and families this summer. It's a big lift. It's heavy work when others are vacationing and we just want to really give them some appreciation and love. And I have a very exciting late breaking announcement to share with you. This was not in your board packet because this is news that just actually became public in the last week, but we are very, very excited to share and honored that the National Summer Learning association has awarded our PPS Summer Acceleration Academy with a national award that they give out every year. We have been awarded with the 202024 Excellence in Summer Learning Award, which is a huge honor. Thank you. We'll have the opportunity to go receive the award in D.C. later this fall. And I want to turn the microphone over to our Director of Learning Acceleration, Darcy Soto, who really sits at the helm of that work, leads it all summer long. She's going to tell you a little bit more about the award and also a little bit more about the program. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening. Thanks, Emily. Good evening, Dr. Armstrong. Good evening, board members. A little further away. There we go. As you can see here, we were notified last spring that we were finalists for the national award that Emily mentioned. And it was a really exciting time and we had the opportunity to showcase the program to a representative who came from the National Summer Learning association to visit our program and we were able to showcase the work at both our Wrigler Hub site and our Fabian hub site as well as our partners who were there in oh, it's just me for our SUN partners with Portland Parks and Rec and SEI as well as our afternoon enrichment partner, Black Parent Initiative at Fabian. So it was a really fun and exciting visit and got to share a lot of experiences with that national representative. And then recently we're notified that we were selected to receive this honor. We will be presenting at the national conference in D.C. in November as Emily mentioned, and able to share our program model and more about the program and why we're being honored in this way. And so I will share more about that in just a minute. But I want to take just a couple of minutes and thank you Emily for the shout out to our staff and our administrators who support summer. We couldn't do it without them. We hire hundreds of people to support that work in the summer. And there's also a big team here at the district office of folks who are working year round to make this work happen. And it's a huge lift. It's running the whole school district on a smaller scale with all the services that are needed during the summer. So I have a few shout outs. I'll be brief. I know it's late, but just taking the opportunity when we have this space I think is really critical. Nutrition Services and Whitney Ellersick do incredible work over the summer. Very nimble and incredibly responsive to student needs. Our Transportation Services special shout out to Lisa Wheeler and Brendan Coonrod. Human Resources does a huge lift in the summer are Nicole Enyart, Rebecca Sundquist, Shannon Holloway, Molly Romaine, Security Services and the IRC Downstairs with Adrienne Howard and Sarah and Sheila and Erin. Their team, unsung heroes of Summer Acceleration Academy for sure. Special education with Michelle Muir and a special shout out to Jamie Volker who provided a lot of direct support to students. Our facilities department, Frank Leavitt and Cub Office with Patty and all of our custodians who again in the summertime when it's hot outside and we've got kids in buildings, they are supporting that work around the clock. So we'll move forward to talk more about the program. But I think just being able to name those folks and so many others who you know, also did a lot of work, the list could go on and on. You have before you the mission, vision and audacious goal of Summer Acceleration Academy which we have developed over the last few years. Our mission really is to support learning in the summer for students who have a need to get up to speed and be really ready in the fall for the next grade level. So we use data to identify students for Summer Acceleration Academy participation, and then we tailor the curriculum to their needs. And this year we've had this audacious goal to really center literacy skill development in the program and to expand our time in literacy instruction in Summer Acceleration Academy to meet the needs of students. So by the numbers up here, this year we served about 2,200 students in grades K through 5 at 11 sites distributed geographically across the district, Again prioritizing students with a need for support and literacy and those who come from historically underserved backgrounds. We have embedded DLI and ELD programs and staffing and curriculum to support those programs. We also support our early kindergarten transition program in partnership with our SUN programs across the district. We provide all transportation and meals, and we also provide afternoon enrichment activities to families at no cost. So any student who is attending Summer Acceleration Academy has access to the academic program in the morning because they also have activities that are supervised and engaging and exciting in the afternoon for students. This year, we've expanded the number of days of our program so we have 22 days of instruction, which is more aligned with the research on the National Longitudinal Research on Summer Learning. And we have 90 minutes of core aligned literacy, which is a really big improvement. This year, we're again focusing on being able to provide differentiated supports in the summer to students who. 100% of our students in the summer have a demonstrated need for literacy support. We have this year, one of our refinements is high. A reading support team with a reading specialist and having our special education staff, EAs and our PPS Rising Educators work with that group. The group of PPS Rising Educators is a group of PPS BIPOC high school students who are interested in education careers who serve as educational and classroom assistants at our SAA program. In the morning and in the afternoons, we subsidize the college course for them on multicultural education. And then finally, a really exciting refinement this year was our SUN block, where we had embedded enrichment opportunities in the SAA Day with our SUN partners. So providing an hour of enrichment activities that were tailored by community and by organization to support the needs of students while we provided time for our educators to plan and to have a break and have some lunch. And here is just some summer fun. This is a collection of photos at Summer Acceleration Academy across the district. This year, you'll See students engaging in Lego, in math, in literacy instruction, and in just some silliness and popsicles and all kinds of good times at summer acceleration. Any more comments? Yeah, I was able to go just see one school, and in talking to the principal, she said that one of the things she'd like to see changed is that when students don't show up, there's no way to immediately get more in. She said they had to meet that problem, started taking in more to help, but it's still because there's something like a 10 day absent policy before you can have somebody else come in. So are you looking at a way to maybe make it to let those who weren't on the list in earlier? We do over enroll because we know that between enrollment and the first day of programming, there's often some attrition. So we plan for a ratio of 15 to 1 students in each classroom, and we over enroll to about 18 students per classroom and at times 19. If we're trying to help get a sibling in, you know, we look at those class counts very carefully. And so we anticipate. Right. That some students will not be there on the first day and the second week of programming. That's when we start calling folks from the wait list. Okay, so you do it pretty early. Great. And I also wondered, I went to the graduation, summer school graduation, and I think there were 28. 26. 28. And were there more than that? They graduated or was that just the number who went to the ceremony? Summer scholars. Yeah, summer scholarship. Oh, it's a different. We can get that number. Oh, okay. Oh, okay. And so the high school students in your program were not ones who are making up for graduation. Okay. And let's see, what other question did I have? It will come to me, I think right now. Graduates. But only the 28 that you saw were able to attend the ceremony. Oh, I know what my question was. Was this the first year you incorporated the SUN program? This is the first year we've done it this way. In previous years, SUN has been part of the afternoon component. And so not all students were able to engage in those activities with sun. And this year, all of our students at Summer Acceleration Academy were able to be participants in sun, receiving guitar lessons and dance class. And so during the school, during the school day, just, you know, kind of on a cascading schedule, each student had the opportunity to engage in those enrichment activities. This year it looked like such a good idea to pick it up like that. Shout out to Carla Hudson and Marco Matias, who worked that schedule out together and I think it was a really brilliant refinement. Great. Any other yeah. I just want to say congratulations for the national award. That's exciting. As a former summer Scholars teacher, I just have to say Woo. I also just want to make comment. I know I've said this a hundred times but you know, like study after study shows that our kids are struggling the most. They fall behind mostly in the summer. And when we have robust summer program, that is one way to close the achievement gap. So thank you for your hard work. All right. Thank you so much. Next we are moving to the I am having a hard time reading board, conference board committee and conference report Director Bryn Edwards, do you have an update from our from the policy committee? I would just say that we're going to be setting this year's meeting dates, continue to work on the cell phone policy and I think I've liked this last time but also exploring potentially the election of board members by zone versus district district wide. And I'm sure this is an issue that everybody on the board probably is interested in. So we'll welcome I know you, Director Scott. You chaired a committee that looked at this FLS census. Look at it again as the city moves to more of a district, more manageable jurisdictions or districts to run from versus running citywide. Just take another look at that and would welcome all board members participation in the discussion. So on that specifically I did see that pop up as a potential agenda item. I guess Director Bermer is a little curious because we did. We did look at that. We had a couple different board members at the time. But actually if I'm not mistaken, a majority of the current board members who were also at that time opposed that change. So I'm just curious, is this something that you're bringing forward as an individual board member or was there other interest in terms of taking another look at that I'm bringing forward as some something that I want to take a look at. Just like we spent the last several meetings talking about the travel policy. Asked by Director Wong, several board members asked for a look at the cell phone policy. I think there are look at again and make a decision. There definitely are equity arguments that can be made about having board members who are volunteers have to run citywide. And I think if you again look at the direction both the county has gone in and the city is heading in which individuals are running from a smaller, more manageable district and I'm not suggesting blank the city moving to public funding, but having recruited candidates for over 20 years to the school board, it's probably the biggest hurdle. Most. It's hard. The biggest reason why most people don't actually run for the school board that have chosen to help me out. So, yeah, I'm very familiar with the arguments. And actually, after having chaired that, you may not know, but actually given two different talks at SBA conferences on redistricting and sort of the pros and cons, what was really interesting that came out of that subcommittee that we looked at was that unlike 20 years ago, most particularly blue cities have gentrified. And so whereas going to those zones back before they gentrified actually led to more diverse representation. There are some reasons, studies, academic studies, that have shown that because of gentrification, actually at large voting can result in more diverse boards. I would add we have the most diverse board, I believe, in Portland Public Schools history, and we are still at large. I agree with you completely in terms of the barriers to voting. That was something we talked about at the time. So there are lots of pros and cons on both sides of this. And I want to be clear, when I went into it, that's the committee. I actually wanted to make this change, but I was convinced by my colleagues, three of whom were still on the board, that it was not a good idea to change. And actually, I've been really interested since then about some of these academic studies. So I guess what I'm just raising is, is it worth the policy committee and the board spending time on it if a majority of the board doesn't want to move that direction? It feels like we should maybe take the temperature now rather than spend time in policy committee around it. We'll bring it up in the policy committee, and I think. And we can have a discussion about whether people want to pursue it. I think there's lots of reasons to look at it. I will also say one of the other things that if you look at the data, basically what it shows is the some parts of the city that have higher income levels and higher education levels have higher levels of voter turnout. I mean, that's just true across country, but it's also true in Portland, which means that the voters in those areas actually have a disproportionate vote. In other districts where the turnout is lower, yes, but that doesn't necessarily increase diversity of the board. No, what I'm saying, though, is it has some, actually some districts picking another district zone representative because they have more frequent voters and a higher percentage of voters. I mean, again, we vote district wide. So I agree with you that There are definitely higher turnout in some places. My point is that I think we need to look at the entire impact and one of the issues is again looking at the research around blue states is that moving towards those specific could potentially decrease the diversity of the board because we don't. We no longer have concentrations of black or Hispanic residents that, you know, would have that opportunity to vote. And so right now we actually heard this one, Director Hollandson and I've just totally lost her name because he's not here. When they got elected, they talked about how and we talked about this couple years ago we looked at this was actually that people from throughout the city were able to say, oh my gosh, I'm so excited to be able to cast a vote for you. So I just want to make sure we're not going down our unintended cause. If you want to bring it up in policy committee, maybe I would. If you're interested, I'd be happy to give my presentation because I have the slide deck. Of course you're more than welcome. I think that's what I started with. Everybody's welcome. And as you may recall, I served on that committee with you. This is what. I'm surprised we're bringing it up. Well, I'm bringing it up again because I, I talked to a lot of candidates who can't raise any money and then they're basically having to run citywide and lots of good candidates who potentially would be great school board members never cross that threshold of running because of the burden of you're going to have to run citywide versus running in a more manageable district. And I say there's lots of discussions. There was lots of discussions when the city moved to the form of government. It's moving towards where you have districts and also a very healthy public subsidy of campaigns. And again, I'm not suggesting that, but all designed to make it, not to make it more accessible for different people to run. So I'll just say we've had, we've had citywide elections for I think the entire time that we've had elections and we've had diverse boards and we've had non diverse boards. So I would want to look at whether there's a causation between the type of governing we've had because this form of voting and representation has led to very non diverse boards in red states. Yes. No, here in Portland, I mean, I think Carol Turner was, I mean there wasn't a woman on the. Let's just be clear, there wasn't even a woman on the school board until about 40 years ago. So there's. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. We have to be careful about how we attribute the type of voting and what kind of representation it makes. But we will have that discussion in committee. And you're more than welcome to come and send your report or come present. Okay. And I do hope that we poll the board in terms of interest because I don't think we should spend time on Pitt projects. I think we should spend time on. I resent you calling that a pet project because you know what? Every board member brings up different issues that they are interested in pursuing. And I would say that there's been a lot of people who have talked to me about the. I don't view it at all as pet project. Have talked to me about the equity of people having to run citywide. And again, the last several board meetings have been devoted to topics that other board members specifically asked to have on the. On the agenda. And I think that's. I'm only bringing up. The point is we've already had. But don't call it a pet project. I mean, it's very divisive. We've had the conversation very recently and decided not to move forward with it. All I'm suggesting is that I don't think it makes sense to just bring it up again because it didn't go the way you wanted it to. I think if we're going to talk to the board, we should figure out whether a majority wants to spend our time on that. I think we get more data and then we can make that decision. It's a very interesting discussion. I would love to hear the. See the presentation as well. I think. Yeah, I would like to move on. I think that we can. The policy committee members can discuss whether they want to bring that up or not. And I trust them to make the right decision. Yeah. I'll just say the audit committee. I'm Chairman Director Wong and just recently Director Brim Edwards has joined. Thank you for doing that. And I am meeting with Janice every other Wednesday and tomorrow we'll be talking about the agenda coming up. So I'll let you know more when I know more, which should be happening tomorrow. Any facilities updates? Nope. Is good news. All right, next we the board will now vote on the consent agenda. Board members, if there are any items you would like. Like to pull for a later meeting, we'll set those aside for the next time we meet. I don't have any I want to pull, but I do have A Just some questions on. I like some Clarity on Resolution 95532. If I can just kind of get a. A bit of what that is. I think it's great. I just don't know what it is. Just talk about security and upgrades. So I just love to find out more information around that. At some point. That's it. Yeah, at some point. No rush. I believe that's contract number 95532. What? That's the construction one. Construction contract. Let's see. Yeah. Security upgrades, phase 2B. I'm just one over. Embrace that. Those are. That's it. Thank you. Ms. Bradshaw, are there any changes to the Consent agenda? No. With that do I have a motion and a second to adopt the Consent Agenda? Motion. Thank you. We have Director Holland's moves and Director Scott seconds the adoption of the Consent agenda. Is there any board discussion on the Consent agenda? All right. The board will now vote on Resolution 6942 and 26946. All in favor, please indicate by saying yes. Yes. All opposed? Police indicate by saying no. Student Director Konseibi, please indicate your vote. Yes. Are there any abstentions? The Consent agenda as amendment is approved by a vote of. I can count five to zero. With Student Director Kasavi voting yes. Unofficially voting yes. Director Wong, can we clarify the resolutions that you. You stated there? Sorry. Thank you. We voted on Resolution 6942. Wait, is that a typo? What I. What is posted for the Consent agenda is Resolution 6,957 through 6,960 and 6,962. Yes. Okay. Thank you. That was a typo here because it also says Student Director Silverstein. Thank you. This is for the vote of consent agenda 6,957 through 6,960 and 6,962. Thank you. All right. Sorry, I'm just catching up. All right. For the last thing. Next up's future board meetings. I think Director Sullivan, you had a topic you would like to bring up during this last. Hopefully. Yes. I said at the retreat I'd look into that board self assessment from OSBA and I sent you all and information about it. So if. Well, I can find out from you later if you want to go ahead with it. But they have time to do it in January or February, which I thought might be a good time. They said usually they do it more in the spring. But I thought why do that? We're still working so it would be nice to do it before so anyway, I'll get a hold of you and see if that's okay and find a date to do it with them. Sounds like it's pretty simple and we'd get some good feedback without a lot of work, so. And it's also not very expensive. Yeah, I seen it. So I'm in favor of doing it. So. Okay. I had a couple topics and the. The reason I'm raising it. We weren't informed of the last agenda zone meeting until a couple hours before the meeting. So nobody had a chance to really provide any input. So the four topics that I hope we move to quickly is our bond planning. We sort of kicked the can down the road because of polling to next May and we need to get the work underway in order to have time to have both conversation with the community for the bond package but also for to be able to effectively run a campaign. We should have a conversation sooner rather than later around our legislative session. Commitments around money are already being made. So if we wait till January or December, most of the money's already been spent. I ran into the Ways of Means chair the other day and they're already talking about we don't, you know, we don't have enough money. So I think it would be a smart thing for us to pull together parents but have it be a board discussion topic of how we're going to approach it and what our ask is and start talking to kids, start talking to candidates and legislators. The third item is I was concerned the other day during the retreat about the lack of alignment between or maybe disconnectedness from the strategic plan to the board goals. And I think it would be good for us to have an intentional discussion about our board goals and how they connect to this change plan and how we get them connected so that we're moving forward together. And the fourth item is the fund for Portland Public Schools. With Jonathan Garcia leaving the state, I think he's still the president but what the plans are for that I know that the community had been expecting that coming out of it, the policy change, that there would be a sort of reinvigoration and strengthening of the fund and that I'm aware of. We're still has only a few board members and that's another topic, another issue that I think we should have an understanding about how we as a board can help support that work. And it's just not clear where it is. So those are four things that I would hope we would have a board level discussion about. Thank you. I like that a lot. Just to make sure I got it all. We have bond planning, legislative session issues topics, strategic plan, disconnect with bar goals and the fund for pps. Yes. And I'd like to say it came up with me, to me from the Ames with principal about foundation money and lack of it and that they needed it for their EAs. So that's a topic I'm sure for lots of people. So we need to find out what the foundation's going to do. So there's one other topic that and I don't know if this needs to be a board meeting topic, but I think we need an explanation. There's been a number of questions in the community about this in the amount of equity funding from 8% to 4, which really surprised me and I'm still not sure that that actually happened because I don't remember any slide with the reduction. So it would be helpful because there's quite an active conversation happening among schools. I think the understanding was that at the high school level the formula had changed but for the rest of the schools, I think they said they couldn't switch to this formula where all schools got some based on a percentage of historically underserved students, which is what they did at the high school level but they couldn't do it at the K to 5 or middle school or K8 level because it was too expensive. But now I say the report we've heard is that this year's budget reduces the equity funding from 8% to 4% and I'd like to know what that's like true and I guess what impacts that has on the schools because that's a halving of the equity funding that existed. Yes, I'm the same. I just want to know what happened and what it means because I have no idea. I mean I don't ever remember hearing that as part of our budget discussion last year. I did hear the high school piece but never like as part of it. One of the budget. I don't think I ever saw a slide that says we're going to save money by reducing the equity allocation from 8% to 4%. Great, thank you. Also, just a note, apologize for the late notice about agenda setting. But you know, just for future knowledge, you can always send anytime, you know my email, you got my number. But there's no regular, there's no regular scheduled time. And so it's like for a while they weren't, they were every month and then like and they were, they used to be all the same day, day of the week, same time. And I think like you can send at any time is. Our protocols have. Like, we're just supposed to be noticed when reading happens, which seems. Seems like it's on people's schedules. We should just. I'll send you the schedule, or we can talk about it, but. Yeah, absolutely. All right. Is there anything else from any board member before I adjourn? All right. Our next regular meeting of the board will take place on October 8th. This meeting is adjourned. Thank you.
