start time: 00:08:00.000
end time: 1197:24:40.000
confidence: 0.95
A: To expedite things. I'm just going to have the horseshoe introduce themselves. Roseanne, will you start, please? Robin town director, Strategic partnerships. Eddie Wong, board member. Patty Sullivan, board member, Director DePass. She's going to come back. Julia Brim Edwards and committee members. Liz Large, contracted general counsel. Rachel Lent, paralegal. Great. So we're going to start today's meeting with public comment. This is general public comment. I think we have some people signed up. Kara, can you share who's going to come up? This is two minutes and Kara will let you know when your time is up. We have Jessica Latte, or you can say you can go back there too. People can hear you better that way. Thank you. As someone who watches the recordings, it's good if people speak up because it can be hard to hear. All right. And do I just begin with never or is there a bell? You can start with that. Okay, thanks. Hi everyone. My name is Jessica Lahti and I'm a parent to three PPS students in the grant cluster. For the last several years, I've worked with other PPS parents to learn about PPS's funding, model, the role of foundations and help educate others on inequitable school based foundation funding. Last Monday, I had the opportunity to travel down to Salem with other PPS parents to talk to our state legislators and advocate for more state funding for our schools. It was an incredible experience and I appreciated learning about the challenges being faced by others in the district. For example, many of the parents I lobby Salem have children who are recipients of SPED services. I learned that these parents are often asked by their schools to keep their children at home because their school does not have the staff nor the services available to meet their needs. I also learned that half of the schools facing teacher cuts next year are Title 1 schools. I learned that our legislators are incredibly accessible and they are open to hearing what we have to say. But given all of our state's current challenges, PPS parents need to show up in large numbers to educate our legislators on the problems our students face and demand additional funding. This requires everyone, I mean everyone, parents of all of our schools, the board and PPS administration to work together to help our legislators come up with revenue solutions that fully fund all of our schools. I'm looking forward to going back to Salem with more parents and I think a district wide foundation model would be a great step toward bringing our voices together to advocate on behalf of all of the district students and uphold PPS's mission. So as a reminder, PPS's mission statement we provide rigorous, high quality academic learning experiences that are inclusive and joyful. We disrupt racial inequities to create vibrant environments for for every student to demonstrate excellence. Thank you, thank you. Thank you for sharing the pictures. It was a great experience. Ryan Phillips Terry Brim Metwards Members of the Committee My name is Ryan Phillips. I am the father of a child at Hosford Middle School as well as GR elementary and I'm also the Grout PTA Treasurer. Currently. I was one of the authors who submitted for your consideration the District wide Foundation policy in the fall and as you may imagine, I do support a district wide foundation, but today I'm here to speak about how to get there. From my experience as a policy analyst for the State of Oregon as well as a Professor of Political science who for nearly a decade researched and taught courses on both politics and policy, the basic idea I would ask the committee and the Board to consider is to set a deadline for transitioning to a district wide foundation, establish the basic goals for distributing funds, and direct PPS staff to convene a foundation Advisory committee that is representative of the community to develop the distribution formula. Decision making bodies such as the PPS Board often set the broad parameters of new policies and leave important decisions up to administrative staff who work with advisory committees to implement. There are good reasons for this. It provides professional staff time to work through the complexity of administering a policy. It gives stakeholders a structured opportunity to discuss, ask questions, provide input and review decisions. This approach also allows for adjustments to be made in light of actual experience as policy outcomes do not necessarily always match policy goals. In my written testimony I provide an example of this approach from my time at the Department of Environmental Quality and the creation of an Environmental Justice Index that is used for the allegation of tens of millions of grant funding each year. I could point to similar examples when I work for the Oregon Employment Department helping to set up paid Family Oregon or sorry, paid Leave Oregon rather and as well as at the Oregon Department of Transportation where I currently work in the Public Transportation Division, I believe a similar model could be adopted to transition to a District wide Foundation. The committee and the Board could set the basic parameters for distribution of funding and the PPS staff could work with a representative advisory committee to determine the allocation funds. I want to thank you for the opportunity to discuss this with you today and I'm happy to ask any questions in my written statement. You can see my contact thank you, thank you and thank you for providing your written statement. Appreciate that. Thank you Board. My name is Michael Eshte I'm a high school graduate of Portland Public Schools and also Portland State. I'm here today just to kind of hone in on a couple of things. I'm a representative of the people that didn't have a clear path to success at Portland Public Schools initially, But I'm so thankful that in 1978, I had a counselor that allowed me to get to a recruiter that spoke to me and said, here's an option. And it wasn't done because I was one of the brightest that we were going to lose from Portland Public Schools because I really wasn't succeeding where I was at, but because I was provided an opportunity, it gave me a pathway to go on to other things and learn the discipline I needed so that I could be a better student because I just didn't have the skill sets at that point. And I want to be representative of that person here today to let you know that I'm not alone. And I have a friend, Flynn Phillips, who is from Oregon as well. And Flynn is a representative of American Legion. And between he and I, over the last month, we've made it a point. Whenever we find veterans from Oregon, we ask, what is your story? How did you get through high school? And more often than not, there's a lot of loose ends in order to get the high school diploma. But almost to a person, we found that they figured out how to get back on an educational track. Many of them gone on to bachelor's degrees inside own homes, and they're doing quite well. And we just continue to gather data. And from time to time, when it's appropriate, I would just like to be that voice to you to say we're thankful you keep an open mind. And to represent the military is not for everybody. And some people have had issues. I get it. But there's an awful lot of us, the majority that went in, we served our country for our four years and then we exited and we went on to more productive or other productive things from the skill sets that we learned that we weren't able on our own efforts to put together while we were in school. So I just thank you for that and just I appreciate that you keep an open mind. I watch your board zooms on tv. I see it. And I do know you have a hard job and I'm thankful for what you do. And it must be challenging, but I just want to be that voice for that other group that doesn't have an easy pathway out. Thank you for your time. Thank you for coming today. Sue Dan Clark. My name is Suzanne Clark. C L A R K E. I would have brought more copies, but I didn't know everybody was going to be here today. From the board, I was also present. I'm a parent of a student at Roosevelt High School and I was also present in Salem on Monday, in a meeting with Representative Travis Nelson's staff, our group of North Portland parents asked his staff to prioritize education funding and communications with his constituents. Something he hadn't been doing. Maya, just put before you Representative Nelson's latest communication to constituents. Advocacy works, but we must show up. And that's why I'm here to speak on foundation policy reform. Again. Merely editing the current policy with an even more complex set of rules would continue to treat PPS communities as different and not the same. And it would continue to place a price tag on equity. Yes, we're willing to accept inequity as long as we raise X amount of dollars. This is a system that needs to change. That is why I support option number one. Option one does what a policy should do. It guides PPS communities to come together to solve our shared problem of underfunded public schools. The new policy doesn't need to lay out how the funds will be distributed. Don't let the perfect be the enemy of the good. There are a thousand ways we can distribute the funds. And with a new district wide foundation, we don't know where the majority of funds raised will come from. And we shouldn't assume that we know one thing is true. Funding sources will most certainly evolve over time. And having spent time with parents from all over our district last Monday, I know we're a fun group and I'm really looking forward to working together. Thank you so much for your time. Thank you. And thank you for going to Salem as well. Okay, thank you everybody who came and shared your perspectives today with the committee. Want to note since we started we you have returned. Sorry I introduced you while you were. Oh, you did? Yes. And we've had Director Green join us. He's not a committee member but all are welcome to our committee meetings. So the next item on our agenda is a agenda item we had last the last committee meeting relating to a revision to policy 6.2 0.043 and we this is something that Director Green asked us to consider and we had a brief discussion about it last last meeting and subsequent to that Director Green asked that we the committee was agreeable to add additional language to the policy that now is in Green. I don't know what's on Your screen pink. Okay. We're adding in, in consultation with an approval of the superintendent, before the language that talks about a high school principal being able to establish a junior reserve officer training program as long as it aligns with pps, academic standards, policy, and administrative directives. We also, I think, gave everybody an opportunity last time around if they had questions that they could be asked in the meantime. You can ask them today also as well. But we also made sure that people had questions they wanted to raise that they could do that in the meantime. Director Green, do you want to speak to the policy? I know you were here last time I was here. You know me as a preacher, and I'm always willing to talk. Give us a short version. We have a tight timeline issue. I don't know how to do a short version, but I will just say that this policy is not directing us to create something that would send students down a track. These students go this way or those students go that way. What we're looking at is looking at our graduation portfolio and how we are establishing multiple pathways to graduation. This is a pathway. It may not be a pathway for all students. Every student is not going to benefit from this, and this is not something that every student should have to. Should have to do. However, with that being said, it is a pathway, and for those students that would like to take advantage of this, then it should be available to them as adults and as district leads. I don't believe that it's our position to allow our bias to prevent us from creating a platform or a path for what someone else could take advantage of. It's not our space to withhold information or to keep information from them simply because we don't agree with it or because we don't believe that it aligns. Our objective as educators is to educate, inform, and provide opportunities so that the student can, in turn make a decision for themselves as to what's going to best benefit them, not what's going to best benefit me and what I believe. And in doing so, this allows us to put something out there that we may not agree with, but the student that needs it should have access to it. And that's. That's what this allows us to do. Great. So I want to ask the committee members or any other board members here if you have any questions, anyone ask staff here. I had some questions, and I've spoken with. I've done as much gathering of data as I. So I've spoken with you briefly. I've spoken with members of the community that are very much not in favor of this. And I started out myself not being in favor of this access just based on my own bias. And I tried to, going back to our time at Harvard, think about really listening to people that are sitting across from you that you don't agree with. And, and so I've had an opportunity to exercise that with this policy. I personally don't agree with it and as the mother of two boys would not want them put into a position where this is like an attractive offer in front of them. But some of the other stories I gathered were from superintendent, a couple of superintendents around, including Super Gigi and two other superintendents from around the country. And what they said was it's not for everyone. It can provide another pathway to graduation and it can teach. The data show that the students that enter into those programs have better discipline and study habits. It helps them get through school. And that was a really compelling argument for me. My concerns were around kids of color, black kids in particular, having no other pathway but the military. And the statistics about the military aren't favorable for people of color. Black people can be harmful. And so I was really concerned about having a non teacher come in and teach the kids. The students having it available to black and brown and low income families was. I was very concerned about that as well. And I think now I've come to the point where if there were some guardrails around, including the superintendents, I like that addition consultation with an approval of the superintendent, but I also like to see some guardrails around who is in the building and that there aren't necessarily any recruitment, active recruitment activities, but rather it is the. It is an opportunity to increase discipline and study at it. So I was very concerned that it would be offered at our lower income high schools, frankly, and not at all of our high schools. And again, what's compelling for me is it's offered as a menu of options for the kids like my son, who had probably the lowest GPA and PPS at the time. It might have been something he would be concerned with or interested in. Whether or not I am as a parent, I'm still also very curious about. I'd love to talk to. I'd love to talk to. There's a school that we visited. I think it was in Tennessee. I don't know who else was here with me, but where they had uniforms on. It was in Nashville, Tennessee and they had a program similar to that. I can't remember. It was one of those many conference trips. I just have concerns about the operationalizing of it. Well, I do know in Director Wong's committee there's a discussion about more of the content versus what? More of the content. If that's. Are you on that committee, the Student Success? No, I'm not. I'm interested in it. But it's another commitment Director Wong can invite you to. I think it's on. You're invited. I think it's. Thank you. So the content. Yeah, that's. It's interesting. So if we're, if we know that the content is good for students, why wouldn't we just do it as a district know without the military? Well, I, I think no like their curriculum. There are other people who have questions. So I think one of the things is in Director Wong's committee you can have a better sense of what that looks like. Yeah, because there's a question about using fte. Because they'll start out sometimes they'll have the teacher, but then the next year you need to provide one. So there's somebody who could be teaching something else. Just has to be in the ROTC program. So it's, you know, it's not just free. Right. It's going to be possibly giving up some FTE for it. So you have to just know what you're getting into. Well, that's why we have built in suspenders with the principal. That's why we have those two. Yeah. The other thing of discussion was like you said earlier, like if it was a menu of options offering it like a ct, like an option, like one of the CT pathways, for example, and it wouldn't be offered at every school, be offered at the target school or specific, maybe a focus school or something like that. So there's still a lot of discussion around it. Need to fit in advancer. I don't know, Director Green, if you had more to add around that. But I think, I think we're having some robust discussions about. Yeah, and again, the issue you raised about it's going to be an fte. Right. And what does that mean? Is it taking away from other pathways? You know, we want to make sure that we're doing what's right for our kids and if this does present an opportunity for the right pathway for some kids, maybe it's worth it. But we also have to make sure we're careful in terms of the trade offs, whether there are before we get in too deep in discussion. Because I think this really helped. The discussion really belongs in Director Wong's committee. Is, is there anybody who has any questions? Because we have our ct. Do you Want to introduce yourself? Sure. Not that you have to ask questions, but just if people did, thank you for that because I am going to actually ask to move this out of committee today. So if people have questions, does it go out of this committee and then live in. No, it goes for first reading. Okay. Okay. Yes, I can introduce myself. So for those that don't know me, I'm Chris Bright. I'm the director of CTE and Pathways, which is also AP and ip. I don't have any questions. I mean, I have questions. We ask questions. If there are questions that. Yeah. That I can answer, I'm happy to answer. So this could be a CTE program? It could. Yes. So the sort of preliminary research that I've done, there are five JROTC programs in the state of Oregon. Those are at Reynolds High School, Oregon City High School, Lebanon High School, Mattress High School, North Salem High School in North Salem. It is offered as a CTE class in the career cluster of Law, Public Safety and Security. Nationally is also recognized in that same career cluster. So it could be. It meets all the requirements for it to be. To be a CTE class. Do we know what the student outcomes are for the students in Oregon that have. That are going through or are they going on? Not specifically for those programs. Certainly we have state data around CTE outcome data for students who complete all CTE programs. But I'm sure we could, we could find more sort of nuanced data specific to this program from. If, if we're concerned about it from a CTE perspective, certainly from North Salem High School. We have, we have a really strong relationship with their CTE team just as being the two largest CTE programs in the state. So we try and share as much information with them as. Okay, I'd be really interested in hearing what that outcome. Great. The outcomes are, you know, what's the teaching license requirements for jrotc? Because I know, like cte, there's a pathway for getting a teaching license. Yeah. What's the. What's it? Yeah. Well, my assumption is that if we were to allow this to continue to be a CTE program, or if that was the sort of path that we would choose to go down, then it would follow the same sort of requirements that any CTE teacher would. Excuse me. Most of our CTE teachers come from industry. And so the threshold that or the mechanism that allows them to become teachers is that they usually bring 2000 hours of industry experience to the sort of process. And we hold what's called an individual appraisal committee. In iac. And the goal of that committee is to assess those hours within this specific career cluster, and then it develops a professional development plan that a CTE teacher has three years to complete. If they're coming from that industry route, that sort of pathway would mean that they would take classes in understanding what CTE is and framework of CTE in the state. But also they take a human development course, usually a literacy course. So there are some sort of pedagogical classes that they would take. On the sort of other side of the spectrum, there are also CTE teachers that come from the classroom. Their process is a little bit different in that they don't have to do the pedagogical pieces, but they do have to do the industry pieces. So their professional development plan may include something like 100 hours that they complete over the course of three years in that specific industry, either through volunteering, mostly through volunteering, but through working or internship opportunities as well. So if this were to live in cte, the mechanism by which someone could be provided a license would be the same as it would be for someone coming from business or computer science or. Or other career clusters. Is it safe to say that we currently have teachers that are working within our CTE programs that aren't currently licensed and that they're in the process of becoming licensed? No, they're all licensed. But there are sort of like licensed teachers degree. Well, there are degrees to the CTE license. So there are degrees to this. I mean, like, there are licensed teacher. Do they go through the same stuff? Have they gone through the same things that a licensed teacher has? See, what I'm looking for is I don't think we need to create anything special. I don't believe that we need to make anything that's completely different. I believe that we need to send this through the same rubric and requirements that we would any other CTE program. And with that being said, if we don't require it for other CTE programs, then the question becomes, why are we requiring it for this? And is that because there's unspoken bias at play that would say, for this it's different, but for everything, every other CTE program, it's the same. I don't want different. I don't think as a district we should be looking for different. We should be saying, this is our rubric. This is how it works to be a cte, whether it be with the policy, whether it be with the teacher, whether it be with anything else. And we're saying if you can make it fit within these Confines, then we can do it. Otherwise, you know, keep it stepping. But we need to be very clear on we're not making one entity do something completely different or different than we are another entity. Because. Because that falls into an equity issue for me. I think that's what he. Isn't that what he. I just want to make sure that we're clear on nothing different about that. We all understand that we're not asking for different. What we're asking for is the same as any other CTE program that we offer within our PPS district. Yes, I agree. We don't control the licensure process. That's all tspc. Right. So the. The sort of threshold that our teachers have to meet, we support. But that's all submitted to the state that, you know, the state board for licensing. The sort of conditions or considerations that we would use to start any CTE program. I have a document I'm happy to share that I wrote them all down specific to JROTC in relation to the things that we would look at for any CTE program. I have it specific to how it looks for jrotc. I'm happy to share. And how does it look? So I'm gonna say if we're gonna have a longer discussion, I'm gonna move this to the next meeting because I want to get to some of the other items. So maybe you could circulate it to the. Happy to. Because it sounds like the answer is there are standards that apply to everybody along with the outcome data. Can you share. So outcomes and just outcomes in general, but also how many people go on into the military and how many people go on to higher ed where these students end up? Sure. Good question. Thank you. So it means a lot. Okay, go ahead. I'm not having a question. More of an add on. So when you're looking at the data piece, Cleveland, Ohio, they have a robust JRTC program. So when you're looking at data, that's somewhere you can gather data from as well. Great. Thank you. The committee members. Can we move this to the full board for first reading? Could we hold off until we get the data? Is there a rush? Or can we to our next meeting to give us time to receive the data. So the answer would be yes. And I would ask that if you have other questions to get them in now so that we can. Or tomorrow next day so that at the next meeting everybody has their questions on the table. Is that fair? Yes, it is. Okay. So I would ask that any questions you have, can I have them go through You. Or would you rather them be sent directly to. No, that's fine. They can come to me. Okay. So anybody who has anything outstanding. Okay. Yeah, I'm looking. What's that? Oh, I. I wasn't sure we were done voting. I thought. I. I don't. I'm not in this committee. All right, we're gonna. We're gonna wait till. Michelle. Director, all of us are going to get the data, the outcomes data. I am going to move it next meeting. Unless there's some substantial reason why we shouldn't. That's fine. Okay. I'm going to try again on the next policy. Just if you can move it, move it out. And again, if this is going to necessitate a longer conversation, I'm going to move it to the next meeting. It shouldn't, though, because we had a discussion about this last time. The diploma requirements. We essentially are making conforming changes to our policy to 4.2 0.042. The only thing that changed was we added language in section. Section E. We didn't even add language. We added a footnote. So the last version we looked at section E, which is. Well, I'm sorry, 1e, which is essential skills. Initially it had been redlined out because the state had suspended the requirements through 2728. And we decided that instead of taking them out because there's a conversation happening in Director Wong's committee about graduation requirements, that we'll leave it in, but with a footnote that anybody who goes and sees this would know that they're suspended until 2728. So that's the only change from last time. And again, so that we. We would like to move this out because that way if people look at the policy, they know what our current graduation requirements are. And that will allow Director Wong's committee to continue having discussion. But in the meantime, people know what the state law requires y sense of the committee members of moving it out. Yes. Today. Recommendation. Can we have a first reading at the next board meeting? Great. Okay. Thank you. Not tomorrow, but the next. Right, I'm sorry. Yeah, next one. Okay, so the next item on the agenda is the policy. 7.1 0.020 Individual School of Program fundraising. And I'm just going to briefly walk through the documents that I'm noticing. The grid. Is that the. Thank you. So I'm going to walk through the documents that are posted and then they're not all ones we're going to actually use, but I want to make sure people know they're there. So versus a Document that's titled Funding of school based Staff. It just has the current state of school and district based fundraising and then some options of things we could things we could do. And then There is a June 17, 2022 report of some community engagement. These are the two roundtables that have been referred to that board members and partnership staff invited people to attend and participate in. There's also a summary of the principal survey that was conducted. So that's just another piece of information. And then there's option one and option two and we'll walk through those in a few minutes. They're revisions from last committee meeting discussion. And then there is a more robust table that it's almost complete that I put together built off what we saw last time with more information. And this is somewhat in response to to your question Director Sullivan, but this is more of. Because options one and two actually have a little bit different language now on the distribution which is leaving it to now to the board to make a decision or to recommend the distribution. But I thought it was worth while sort of talking through some of the examples of other districts in the state and what they do, their size, the type of the type of foundations they have and whether they allow funding for FTE or not. So just at a very high level I'm just going to walk through it and we can have a longer discussion. But I later. But this just gives you an example of what other districts do in this in the state. Some, some that are like us and the other ones that aren't but that actually they're much smaller but they do allow fundraising for staff but at a district level. So like pps we all know what our system is. So Beaverton similar size district, there's no individual school affiliation. Organizations can raise money to pay for staff. They have a foundation BEF that they basically district wide raise money and then they provide. I've done a fair amount of work with them. Just might work out at Nike. But they try and find projects at each individual school. But they're more teacher driven. A teacher comes up with project, they apply for a grant. It's all application based. Yeah, but it's. And it's grant based. It's not. You're not paying for a classroom teacher. It's usually like a program that they want to run. No fte. Right. Salem Kaiser, their foundation dissolved during the pandemic. But before so another similar size district, either number two or number three in the state. Number two. And I also tried to write what other funding options there are for funding Aside from the state school fund, it's worth noting that Salem not only didn't allow individual school affiliated organizations but they also have no local option. And I added the bond in because even though that doesn't pay for fte it because of a change in law. I want to say in 18 or 19 things that districts used to use their operating dollars for either for staff or in this case technology or curriculum now can be put on the bond. So it took some pressure off. So for PPS we were allowed to pay for all our curriculum instead of having it be are we going to do curriculum or teachers. So that's why I had this column. But Salem Kaiser has no local option. They do have a bond. I think it's very building related. Tiger Tualatin Smaller district but they are included because they their foundation does raise money for FTE but it's at a district wide level. Another thing they have somewhat similar to PPS as PPS has a medium household income of 87,000 theirs is 83,000 and they also have a local option levy. So Lake Oswego they have a local option and a bond. Their median income is much higher than PPS's. They do allow the raising of funds for FTE but it's done. Again district wide they have a policy that does not allow individual schools to raise funds for FTE or to allow foundation donations to be earmarked for a specific school. Westland Wilsonville they have a local option and a bond. Like Lake Oswego their median income is much higher. They raise not very much money in their foundation but they do raise funds district wide for staff. But they also are very explicit that they if you're going to raise money for staff it has to be through the Westland whistle and bills through the through the foundation. Hillsboro it's a medium or one of the larger districts in the metro area. I've had a fair amount of interaction with them. They do district wide fundraising and they do innovation grants. It's closer to the Beaverton model where people can apply for them get them they have no local option. So it's really the state school fund is their main way that they pay for staff. One on Tiger Tualatin versus Every school in the district gets the same amount of FTE based on how much is raised raised in each school or raised in the whole district the foundation so they raise, they raise a fair amount per student. I mean there is actually for a district one quarter the size of PPs they raise almost the same amount. Julia I think that's since 2006 though. So I think pardon their data on their website says the 2.7 million is from 2006. So now. So it's not. If you look at their ProPublica annual reports, their 990s. That's the annual. Yeah. It's sort of contradictory. It's like okay, we can get. We can. Yeah. Anyway if looking. We need to look closer. They. They don't allow any. Think of Every school half FTE. Every 0.5 FTE every year. Yeah. So their annual reports is 318,000. They looked at this weekend. Not really enough. We'll calibrate it up and says the revenue for 2022 is 2.2 million anyways. Okay. For which district. Okay. Not 2.7. This is for 2022. We can call. That's why there's the big. That's why there's the big draft quantum market. I mean I think it's important to note that during the pandemic everything was different. I'm just going to ask that we keep the conversation at the horseshoe or the stable. I think partly what this is designed to show is there are some there. There are. Most foundations don't allow funding, don't have funding for FTEs. But if they do, it's not the district wide level. And if anybody notes anything else they want to correct or change, let me know and we'll get this. The watermark removed. I believe in watermarks. Okay. So that's I think was to answer some questions about how it works and then I also think director Sullivan you'd ask just about how it'd be distributed and as I was thinking more about it instead of putting some sort of complicated formula or like we have to have the formula before we move ahead. It's providing in the. In the draft that that would be. It's in here somewhere. Basically decided by the before or after they raise somebody. Like we. Yeah, I mean generally probably said it before would be the normal practice but again this is designed to be more higher. Higher level. So maybe. So let's get to the two to two drafts. So last time it was a smushed together draft with a section that was I think highlighted or in a different color that was like okay, here's two different models that you could do. But it was all in one document because there are a lot of similar features. So why it's now two. It just, it was confusing frankly to have it in one. So what the difference between the two is in option one there's a Paragraph that starts with equitable fundraising for staff and contracted staff. That goes down to registration. So that this, that paragraph is. Or that section is in. Maybe I should number these to make it easier is only an option one and option two is without that particular method. So maybe the first thing to do is go through option two, which is the. The version without it and then we can talk about the other mechanism, option two. So in option two, the first paragraph is. Mitch statement of values. This is pretty consistent with the last. The last version we saw. When we go down to. I'm just noticing this is the. Go down to the next paragraph. The local school foundations in school or program fundraising. There is the statement about the fund for Portland schools or another designated fund. And the reason that we had the option of another something else designated by the board is that obviously as a separate 501C3 the board can't tell them what to do. And so if the fund decided it wanted to do something different than the board could have another designated fund to be the vehicle for a district wide foundation. Okay, that confuses me. So you're saying. So if we wanted not have. If. No, if. If we have district. This is establishing a district wide foundation. And one of the other provisions is that the board of directors be representative of the broader school community is that the fund for Portland schools is a. Is a 501C3 and that has a separate board of directors. So we can't necessarily tell them what to do. We'd need to enter into like a new operating agreement if we were to change that. And so the question is if they like we want to continue doing this something else versus being the district wide fund that we could designate another entity. Sorry. So what were the origins of the local school foundation in the first place? What was the origins of the local schools foundations? They were established so that they could raise money to buy fte. Okay, maybe I'm talking about the mechanism that the money is going in. Sorry, I'm talking about the mechanism that the money is going in to find out. You mean to fund for Portland schools. Right. So when the Portland Schools foundation, when it was founded in the mid-90s after Ballot Measure 5, they set up where they were the umbrella fiscal agent for individual school fundraising to buy staff, which was allowed right after measure five. In they couldn't buy staff. They could. And then in. I'm trying to remember what year this was because I was on the board. The Portland Schools foundation then became all hands raised. I was on that board at the time, not the PPS board. And when they transitioned to All Hands Raised, it became not just the Portland Schools foundation, not just about Portland Public Schools, but it became a Multnomah County. So all of Multnomah County. So that's still all Hands Raised mission. And then. And you can help me out. Remember, Liz, in 2018, they were like, we're not going to do this anymore. The PPS portion because they were doing their county wide work. Sorry, Gary, that was a complicated question. They were doing their county wide work and they still had these individual school funds for PPs and they're kind of like, we want to hand this back to you. And PPS said. Robin probably knows. Granule. Yeah. Say, were you here in 2018? Because. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Okay, Gary. Okay. This is. So then they reach an operating agreement with between All Hands Raised and the MPPS to establish the Fund for Public Schools so that they could shift that. Those individual affiliated funds, they weren't. It wasn't a separate 501C3. It was basically the umbrella. And so they could shift them over to pps. And the fund for PPS was the purpose. Is that for it to support the money that's coming in there for the purpose of Portland Public Schools? Well, it was mainly to buy the. To purchase. So they did two things. They purchased the staff on behalf of individual schools and then they also did the equity grants. And the intent was for it to do more than that. It was created. The fund for PPS was created. That was a portion of it, but it had other. Yeah, the superintendent Guerrero wanted to have a foundation that could raise money for Portland Public Schools. And all hands raised said, if you're going to do that, you need to take back this program. So I would say chicken or the egg. You know, I think the Fund for Portland Public Schools has a broader mission, but it continues. The other thing was originally the Portland Schools Foundation. They started and they mobilized. I forget their exact mission. It was like mobilizing people and funds to support Portland schools. They put on the march for Portland schools that had 30,000 people marching for school funding. So they really organized the community around school funding down in Salem. And they also. For every single local option or the local income tax surcharge, all the statewide funding, they funded that. So for example, the first local option in 2016, they put like 150,000. They basically cleared out their reserves to help us pay for it. And they also were the main funder of the local income tax surcharge campaign, which was in 2002. So they. They played A much broader role. It wasn't just like we're going to get philanthropy rules. I mean they basically helped us get our all of our local options. And then when it became all hands raised, they said we're not going to do that anymore at all. Like we're not going to because we've got all these other school districts and we're just not going to play that role anymore. Gotcha. So now there's. I'm just, I'm sorry because this is maybe the second time that I've heard this, this name and I'm just, you know, I'm glad I actually got to be here and you brought it up. So my thought that I wrote down is so they now collecting money saying that hey, we're doing all this stuff for Portland Public Schools and now as how they're using the money or how they're choosing to use the money. Because you said we don't have any control over how something changed. And there's no, what I'm saying is if we choose to change what we're doing to have a district wide foundation to raise money for staff or whatever, it's decided that, that, that, that be done at the district level versus an individual school that we couldn't just go tell the fund, you have to do that. Oh, because it's its own. Because they're their own. So the district would take on our responsibility to divvy up the funds and all that stuff. Or you just set up another. Set up another 501C3. But then when they still have their own. When we run into the same issue when they have their own board. Well, not, not if you set it up as like this is. You're gonna, I mean, just like PPS said, when we set up the fund there was an operating agreement. There still is an operating agreement that can be in that. I mean the idea of setting up an entirely new one when you have one is certainly you can set up six of them if you want. But I agree with you. The fund for PPS has a pretty pp and I haven't read the operating agreement, but it exists to support pps. There is a mechanism that's in place. There can be another one still doing that. Yeah. So the language is just broad enough to take care of it. Obviously you could go either, either way. Yeah. If it is its own 501C3, it does have its own board and it's an independent entity, but its mission is defined as one that would support pps. And that's true of the existing one and would be true, I presume, of anything else that was set up, if it's a separate one. Okay. So I'm going to keep. Keep going. So the next in. In option 2, the next paragraph essentially states that external fundraising for additional staff has potential to create new inequities that the district equity staffing model is intended to address and has a statement that fundraising and using foundations funds for staff will not be permitted after June 30, 2024. So setting a clear like this school year would be the last school year in which those funds could be. Could be raised, could be raised for an individual and then there is a registration. And this is. So PPS has just visibility to what fundraising is happening at various schools. There is currently, although it's hardly ever enforced. A. I think the district has. Is supposed to approve any donation over $5,000. Again, just to provide some sort of visibility and structure. Did you say that was enforced or. We don't know. I don't believe it's enforced. It's supposed to like be approved. Like if somebody said I want to give MLC or Benson $5,000, Roosevelt, Cleveland, Lincoln, Washington, Monroe, but it's supposed to be approved. I forget what policy it's in, but it's supposed to be improved, but it's not now. But this should give us more visibility. And one thing that happened is over the last 10 years when all hands raised into effect, some individual schools set up their own separate 501 season that the district doesn't have a lot of visibility into it all because it doesn't even run through the fund for pbs. Was that in like a reaction to. So essentially then they just. Well, I don't want to have any sort of bad motives, but basically if you gave money to the. And Robin, you can correct me if I have this, but I'm going to say generically or just in general is say if you gave $1,000 to buy staff and it went through the fund for PPS, they just take the 1/3 right away. Right. I mean, because the only money going to the fund for PPS in those individual schools are for staff, right? Yes. So the first 10,000 is exempt. We, we do like a running total for the year. We apply the formula. Yeah. But if you have your own foundation that doesn't go through the fund, essentially you say we want to fund that staffing position. The district says how much it is and then you, you, you fund it there versus the money just coming. Right. They send the money to the district, but it Is versus the money just coming straight into the. Yes. So there's eight independent foundations that are their own 501C3 and they're the largest. You know, some of them, some of them aren't really active, but we don't. They work with their principal to determine the amount and then they have to send us that money by June 30th in order for it to be used for the next fiscal year. It used to be a little different where there was some invoicing and we don't do that anymore. So it's like they make a donation that amount and we apply the formula or we take the 33% the fund for PPS. Our team works on the fund for PPS. So it's a separate entity but we're doing that work as PPs. And then the money, the 33% that goes in, people apply for throughout the district. Then we do the PPS Parent Fund Award. So that's the. It's split based on a formula and that's kind of adjusted slightly depending on how much comes in for a given year. But it's usually typically the title one schools and more that get awards. Like around 60 schools for the last few years have gone. And who decides that? The Fund for PPS board votes on those awards and then they get announced. So this is just a, I think a pretty standard just connect between entities that are raising money for to benefit our schools and then other requirements and these, these have been discussed over. Oh, Julia, can I ask one more question? Sure. So if you're raising money not for staff like for sending somebody to a ball game or buying uniforms. Right. You don't have to go through all this stuff. Veer right. Exactly. Okay, so fundraising then other requirements. And these are all things that have been discussed for almost four, four or five years. Well, most of them. So include all anybody who wants to participate. So this is the, you know, school communities where you know, some families can't pay for the they want to but can't afford a $250 ticket. So this is inclusionary language. And then the next one is not communicated expected per family or per student fundraising targets. So there are school based fundraising happening that says if you have, you know, one child, this is what we expect your family to contribute or two, you know, here's what you would contribute. So again we're a public school system not setting. You shouldn't get like a $800 bill at the beginning of the year including third bullet include and inform the broader school community about fundraising. Decision making processes especially especially including families for whom education equity programs are meant to benefit. And then the last one, I don't know, it's just like even a. I don't want to say it's a throwaway but like of course we'd expect everybody to follow district policies, administrative directives and other requirements, annual review and budgeting and then the other provisions. So one of the strengths of the schools foundation was they had a pretty broad board of directors that represented all the clusters and they really were able to like we need you know, 2,000 people to show up at city hall and they would because it was like they would activate their people. So having a broader board of directors and again this is not something that with the current operating agreement that we the district could fire the fund for PPS to have something that my perspective is a builds more of a district wide field. So I'm going to briefly talk about option one and then I'm going to cognizant of that we have a hard stop coming up. So option number one is pretty much the same language with the exception of the section in the middle. And this tried to recreate in some ways although I don't the the potential of the district budgeting for each school to have some discretionary funds. And one of the. One of the benefits of the foundation funds and being able to pay for staff is it frankly is very driven by this much by the school. Like we want to make sure we have a full time art teacher. So we're going to pay the you know, the 0.3 FTE so they can be full time or we want to have an EA and you know, both the first grade classes. When you look at the amount of money that schools get sometimes it's misleading because it's like a school make a lot more money. But also title schools and other schools have a lot more requirements on how that money is spent. So it may be like you may want to have a full time teacher but you're going to have a, you know, you're going to use the extra FTE that you have through the equity formula to provide this particular service or to fill this position and so that the schools that have discretionary funds have a lot more flexibility in those spending that additional money. So what I was trying to do is create almost like what we had last year. But it's just hard because obviously we don't have Esser money. So it's dependent on having making space that being a priority that we. You could do it as something like we'll just provide more consolidated budget for each of the individual schools is another way you can do it. And can I ask. So that was a $70,000. That was an equal distribution throughout the system. It was a hundred and we. Last year it was. It's more funded on this. But I was talking about in actually. So actually this is the wrong version. But the version I thought I sent over. Yeah. Actually had. It says 70, I think. Yeah. 70,000 in mine. Okay. The wrong version. The version that was posted. That's okay. But this is the version that's posted is 70,000. Yes, it is. Okay. Thank you. That's. That's a. She may have printed them. Right. But you see it's in parenthesis. It's like okay, so last year it was 120, 110. And then there was. So that's how much each school got. And then they got $11 per student. Which is way more complicated. Another. We should focus on the exact amount. But is more like do we even want to allow that or do we want to say all the fundraising for staff is going to happen at the district level? Because. Because there's. Right now the equity grants are not even for most schools with the highest amount of funds. I'm just saying they're not real. No, it's like 20. Well they can range anywhere from 20 to 60,000 depending on how much money everybody else raises. But it's not the same. So really I say I don't. I tried to come up with a way in which you could have that other as a secondary option if you. You still want to allow schools to raise money but then also have it be more equitable. Okay. I'm stuck on the. When I look at the FTE at different schools, the schools that can raise the most money have really high FTEs. I mean one teacher to 26 or 30. How they actually have. And the ones that can't raise so much money like 1 to 14. So they already have an advantage at least staff wise student. Now maybe you're right. So they can't get the art teacher because it has to be a meeting specialist. I don't know. Except for that assumes that everyone's similarly situated, wouldn't it? I mean there is more that goes to title schools. So I mean it's not a straight. So it's so for me, one to one. If it's. If it's like if you're raising money so everybody can have a library. So you're looking at librarians, you're not looking at if you're raising money only because it goes to the lowest income schools. So that's crazy. It's got to be where the need is, in my opinion. But that is where the need is. But is it? Well, it is because if you look at student outcomes and. But it's just putting more fte what makes the student outcomes change. Well, I would hope so since a highly qualified teacher usually is. What makes the biggest difference is the highest qualified, but not necessarily the smallest classroom. It's complicated. There's a lot of other stuff. Combination. Right. Well, just one comment. I know we have time. I just. My opinion is that for option. I think the board books have mixed up from what you mentioned. I think option one is the one. Yeah, Sorry. I'm sorry. She may print these before you posted versions this afternoon. So my comment is that I think we should go with. I'm pushing for option one, which is not the 70,000, because I feel like if you want to do that 70,000 model, it should be a separate program because then that would be easier to. If it goes all wrong, it'd be easier to adjust versus it was all incorporated in a foundation and a school allocation. So your preference is one which is opposite of what I said. It's the. It's the one, the simplest one district foundation. Okay. Yeah. Because then that way it gives, you know, whoever our superintendent may be more leeway to, you know, if they want to do like every school gets a fund or where they can allocate their own way or something like that. It just. I think it just kind of keeps it cleaner. Not only that, but option two, I think the 70,000 has a. Anyways, I know I have a limited time, so I'll just cut myself off there. I think I have a lot of questions about that, but I'll save it. Okay. What I'm going to ask committee members is like send me whatever questions you have or if you had actually send them to Liz Copy to me. Sorry. Send to Liz Copy to me. Just clarifying. So the highlighted text that's listed in Word books as option two is actually with highlighted text is option two. So it's. It's what's different between the two. Okay. Okay. That makes more sense. Okay, it does. Okay. Otherwise. Because there's some things that should be common to both. To both. Yeah, absolutely. I understand. I just. I missed the conversation about which version was posted, but I was saying them. Thank you for correcting me. Believe it or not, I brought all these, but I didn't bring the one file that had the save a tree. So I would ask any. If you have questions or suggestions, like some of this language isn't clear or I'd like to add something, or Patty, you want other information, let me know. And I would like to move the policy soon. So I would. Since it's been sitting here for six years. Yes. So I would ask that people send me your questions and thoughts. Okay. With that, we're going to adjourn. So Director Hollins, chair, Hollins, shift topics. He's never been this early.

